I slept with a count last night
he had secretly charmed me
-hej fallit faldera, hej come faldera
he had secretly charmed me

“No, I did not charm you,
I would have gladly paid you

I will give you my stable boy
and two thousands Ducats as well”

“No, if I cannot have my lord
then I will go home to my mother”

And when I came to my father’s farm
my dear mother is standing there in the gate

“Welcome my daughter so fair and fine,
how did your trip treat you?”

“My travel treated me so,
that now I am going to have a child.”

“Do you like mead, do you like wine,
or rather the brown muscatels”

“No, I neither like mead nor wine,
nor the brown muscatels.

What I like best is a well made bed
where my limbs can rest.”

That count he dreamed at night, as he lay
that little Lise had died from great sorrow

That count he spoke to his stable boy,
“Saddle me and you a pair of horses.

And then we’ll ride both night and day
until we can find little Lise

Then they rode out on the road
and then they heard the bells ringing

That count he speaks to his stable boy:
“What can these bells mean?”

“These bells can only mean
that now a corpse now must be.”

Yes, then they rode a little further,
and they came to those diggers who dug

“And listen, you diggers, you fine diggers!
for whom are you digging these graves?”

“Yes, that is for a maiden so fair and fine,
in life she was called little Lise.”

“And is it little Lise you are digging for,
then God has eased her sorrow.

Then you should make that grave so wide and so broad,
that two can rest in it.”

Yes, then they rode a little further
they came to some pallbearers, who bore

“And listen you pallbearers, you fine pallbearers!
who is it that you are carrying on the pall?”

“Yes, it is a maiden so fair and fine,
in life she was called little Lise.”

“For my sake, she has suffered great need,
for her I will suffer great sorrow.”

Then he put his spear up against a rock
and stuck it in his side.

Then they took that count, as bloody as he was
and lay him by the maiden’s side
-Hej fallit faldera, hej come falderaldera!
And lay him by the maiden’s side