Las he whispered into his dear’s ear,
--Hejå dawn is breaking again
if they shouldn’t have themselves a birth celebration
“Well, do we have meat?” said he Las
---“Well, we’ll get some, “ said he Mas
Because they followed each other so freely through the grove

Las wanted to go through the forest,
to catch an animal was his goal.
“I think I’ll go with you,” said Mas
“Sure, you certainly can,” said Las

Las put his rifle on his back
and then they went into the forest in good spirits.
“Here I come,” said Las.
--“Me too,” said Mas.

Now when they got into that forest,
they saw a bear lying there asleep.
“Should I shoot him?” said Las.
--“Yes, you can.” said Mas.

Las put his rifle on his knee,
and then he shot that bear that lay under that tree.
“There he lies,” said Las.
--“Yes, I’d say so,” said Mas.

They went over to the bear to flay,
but his whittling knife couldn’t bite into it.
“Give me your wheststone,” said Las.
--“Here you go,” said Mas.

Now when they’d gotten the skin off,
there were fifteen holes in it.
“I think we should sell it,” said Las.
--“That would be fine,” said Mas.

Las threw the skin on his back, 
and off they headed to the market town.
“Do you think we can sell it,” said Las.
--“Yes, I’m sure we can,” said Mas.

But as they went along the road,
they met four or five thugs.
“They probably want it.” said Las,
--“Yes, I think so,” said Mas.

Well, two in front and three behind,
then they tore the skin from Las’s back.
“Now they’re taking it,” said Las.
--“Yes, they took it,” said Mas. 

Las wanted to climb over that fence
and his balls wound up on a post
“Oh my, there they hang,” said Las.
--“Yes, I think so,” said Mas.

Then when they got to the market town street,
they met up with a baker woman.
“Should I talk to her,” said Las.
--“Yes, I think that’s best,” said Mas.

Las whispered in the woman’s ear,
“Can you fix me a pair of balls?”
“What did she say?” said Mas.
--“She said yes,” said Las.

And she poked out and she poked in,
and it hurt in Las’s skin
“That hurts,” said he Las.
--“I can imagine,” said Mas.

For fifteen nights and fourteen days,
Las’s balls lay in a bread pan
“How are things?” said Mas
--“Oh, not too bad,” said Las.

Las looked in through the window,
--Hejå, dawn is breaking again
all of his women hopped in the alcoves
“I think they’re crazy,” said Las.
--“They probably are,” said Mas.
Because they followed each other so freely through the grove

Then they went the closest way as before
and they met the most beautiful young girl
“Whisper to her,” said Las.—“Yeah, sure,” said Mas.
And Las whispered into the girl’s ear,
if she couldn’t fix his pair of balls.
“She wants to see.” said Las. – “Yeah, sure,” said Mas.
Las went into an inn,
there sat fifteen tailors and drank themselves drunk.
“Drink to me,” said Las. – “Yeah, sure,” said Mas.
And why should we drink to you,
and do you have something to give for that,
“I don’t,” said Las. – “There you go,” said Mas.
