Rosenillen dances on the floor with vigor
so the milk sprang from her breast
-Haahaahaaha!
so the milk sprang from her breast.

“And listen, Rosenillen, dear daughter mine!
why does milk spring from your breasts?”

“It isn’t milk, even though it looks it,
it is the wine we drank yesterday.”

“Yes, milk is white and wine is red,
the two are unlike each other.”

“Dear mother, I cannot hide from you,
the young Mr. Nilwe has seduced me.”

“I will have him fried and burned
and send you far off to distant lands.

I’ll have him hung from a branch,
and you yourself shall be sunk in a violent current.”

[Late at night, when the dew fell,
Rosenillen goes off to Mr. Nilwe’s cell.]

My mother will have you fried and burned
and me she’ll send to far off distant lands.

My mother will have you hung from a branch,
and me myself she’ll sink in a violent current.”

“Now gather all the red gold in a chest,
while I saddle my grey mare.”

Now when they got into Rosenslund,
there Rosenillen wanted to rest a while.

She couldn’t call for a midwife
[it was now time for her to deliver]
He had to tie a blindfold over his eyes, and then he would be her midwife himself.

“Before a man shall learn of a woman’s sufferings,
I would rather first die out here in Rosenslund.”

Then he lay out his cape so blue,
and she gave birth to two living sons on it.

“Through Rosenslund there runs a stream,
Christ would I like a drink from that!”

Mr. Nilwe was so true to Rosenille,
that he got her water in his silver-buckled shoes.

He gave her water as he had no wine,
and therefore he lost his most beloved.

[He dug a grave so wide and so broad,
and then he lay Rosenille and the children in it]

He lay Rosenille out in the grave with comfort,
he lay the two living ones up to her breast.

He rode so far out into the woods,
he heard that the two living ones cry under the cover.

Then he placed his spear against a rock,
so that the point did great injury to his heart.
-Haahaahaaha!
so that the point did great injury to his heart.