There was a man who lived in Teglgården, a little manor farm between Buderup and Skjørping, and he’d given himself to the Devil’s power. But the Devil had agreed to give him a sign before he came and took him so that he could be somewhat prepared for the trip. Then one Sunday morning his hired girl was to go and get his Sunday clothes for him, he wanted to go to church, and when she brings him a pair of white stockings first, they looked red to his eyes. He says to her that she should get him another pair, he didn’t want ones like that. She got him another pair, but they were red too, and all of the ones she brought were red. Then he gets quite upset and says that he doesn’t want to go to church today and she should put them away. After that, he chased every one off to church, they all had to go except for the girl who’d given him the stockings, she was to stay home. Now she was to get him a big bowl of sour milk, he said to her, and he put a bunch of silver coins in it. “Now I want you to give me a spoon,” he said, and he wanted to spoon the money into himself, but he couldn’t swallow the coins. So he pushed them over to the girl, she could have them. Immediately, the finest carriage drove into the courtyard and stopped in front of the main door. She thought that it was important guests and the man who was sitting in the wagon also went in to see the lord but she didn’t see what he did with him, but she did hear that he complained quite a bit and he didn’t have the chance to leave out the door with him, but rather had to leave through a corner window, and then off with him, and they went fast because they drove over an oak by Hvældam. When they got to the stream that runs between Skjørping and Teglgården, there were some scrub oak trees and other oaks down by the stream at that time, and cleaved an oak tree so that it almost broke in two, and it hung down and grew like that for many years, and because the Devil had driven over it there was no one who dared take it. Now no one saw Per Yde any more--you see that’s what the manor lord at Teglgården was called--but they traveled north to Hell with each other, and after that people heard that when the Devil traveled over the sea with him, a ship came sailing right by at the same moment and the people called out asking who he was. Well, it was the Devil. And what freight did he have? Well, he had Andreas the bishop and Andreas Fal and Peder Yd’. Where were they from?, ask the people on the ship. Well, one was the bishop of Bremen, and the other was a dean--I can’t remember now where he was from, but it was a place way down south--and the third was the man from Teglgården. You see, that was the last people heard of Peder Yde, but when the girl came into the room where the Devil had taken him, she saw his brains hanging on the walls, so he must have grabbed him pretty hard. There was a farmhand who worked here in the town who said that there was always a ruckus in the attic at Teglgården at night.