As a satire about the previously used tool, there is the following story: The first thing I can remember is that they used leather ropes which were just like hemp rope is today, and when they had fallen to pieces, then they could be used with the corn thresher (plejl). They had stavseltræer or sejltræer [a wooden, lyre-shaped harness part] on the horses. It was the custom at the time, after they’d planted, that they’d drive to Nibe to get a load of herring. Then there was this guy who had a few large drams down there and it was the evening before he left the town. Then when he came by Vogslev (Ugslev) church, there’s a big hill there south of the town which he had to go up, and there he got down and walked beside the wagon. Then it started to rain hard. Since he’d gotten a ways up, he decided to get back up and drive, but the wagon had disappeared, and he couldn’t see anything on the horses other than the blankets and the bare harness part, since it was raining and it was dark. Now he had no idea what he should do, but so then he got up to ride on one of the horses and then he rode home. So he comes home and takes the blankets and the harness parts off the horses and hangs them up on some large wooden racks on the north side of the barn that they had there to hang their tools on when they came back from the fields in the spring. He goes inside and tells his wife what’s happened, and that he’d have to go and get the wagon, but now it’d have to wait until the next day since the weather was so bad. But later in the day it became dry and windy and just as the ropes dried up, then the wagon came, it had in fact remained on the road, and the ropes had simply stretch a great deal in the rain. When it was ten o’clock, his wagon and herring were back at the farm, it came into the farmyard to him. He used those leather ropes as long as he was alive, and he was called Ell-Lavst, probably named for his mother. His son was called Ell-Jens or Jens Nörgård, and he inherited them. A stump of them was still left when Peder Tygesen became a man, and he had enough with which to tie his thresher.