There was a boy who wanted to get out and look around in the world. Then he meets an old witch who gives him three dogs: Burenbrak, Stærkendreng and Snærvind, and then she also gives him a whistle which he could use to whistle the dogs to him, regardless of where he was. Now as he traveled about, he comes into a large forest, and he comes to an isolated place there; it was in fact a robbers’ fort. No one was at home except for an old woman and he asks her if he could have lodgings there for the night. Sure, he certainly could, but she did not want to have the dogs in with him. Here was a room, they could stay there until the next morning, and then he could come get them. Then she comes with some porridge and milk for him and said that he was welcome to eat a big bowl of that, because it would be the last thing he got. Well, he got that, and when he had finished eating, he says: “Can I take this here whistle and amuse myself with it for a little while?” – “Sure, you can whistle as much as you want,” she says, “but you will never get your dogs again!” Because while he had been eating she had warmed up a kettle of water and thrown it in at them, and so she figured that they were dead. But as soon as he blew on his whistle, all of the dogs came and stood by him. So he took all of the gold and silver there was in the robbers’ den, they had taken that from other people, and traveled home to his poor parents with it. Now he decided that he wanted to take a trip to the capital with his dogs, since they were so strong they could knock everything down. When he got there, the Royal castle was covered in black. Then he gets lodgings with a woman in the town, and he asks her what that was supposed to mean. “Well,” she says, “the King has been in trouble three times, and he also has three daughters; he has promised them to three mermen in exchange for their help here in the country.” Now the one daughter was to be handed over later that morning. “Is there no one who can save her?” says the boy. Well, there is in fact one, who is called the Red Knight, he had offered, but she didn’t know if he really could. “Well, then I’ll stay here until noon,” says the boy, “so I can get to see that.” – “Well, you can certainly get to see it,” she says, “but it probably is not too good to get too close!” Then the princess came driving by and was put down on the beach, and the Red Knight was with her. He had two loaded pistols with him, but he climbed up into a big tree. Then the boy goes out there, and the princess was sitting there crying. He wanted her to tell him what she was crying about, and she told him too. “Is there no one who can save you?” he says. “No, there isn’t,” she says, “because the Red Knight promised to, but he’s afraid and is sitting up in a big tree. Hurry up and get out of here, because the dragon will be coming soon!” she says. Well, couldn’t he stay? “Sure, you may, but then you’ll die too, there’s no way around it.” Well, he was going to die at some point anyway, he wanted to see how bad things could go! With those words, she smiled a little at him. Then she sat and bound her ring in his long hair. But then all of a sudden the merman came whistling and roaring out of the sea, and he had so much water around him that it almost took the princess and boy with it. He roared at him: “Are you sitting here with mine!” The boy answers that: “Well, it was mine before it was yours, and can certainly become that again!” Then the boy says to Burenbrak, that he should attack him. It runs over there and knocked him out and grabbed his necks and bit all his heads off all at once. Now the princess had been saved. He opened the mouth and took the tongue out, and he hid it in his handkerchief. Now he wanted to leave, but then she said to him, that he absolutely could not! Well, he wanted to leave and so he did. Now the Red Knight comes down out of the tree and he threatened that he would shoot her if she didn’t tell her father that he had saved her. He took the head of the dragon with him in the wagon, and then he brought the princess home to her father. But the boy had gone back to the old woman. She says: “So, the Red Knight managed to get power over the dragon after all, since now the princess has come back.” – “Yes, he managed to,” said the boy. The next day, the second princess was to go off. The oldest sister had managed to whisper to her that a boy with three dogs had saved her. The Red Knight drove her down there and crawled as usual up the tree. Then the boy came and asked what she was sitting there crying about. “Well, I have enough to cry about,” she says, “because the dragon is coming soon, and the Red Knight has abandoned me. You’d better see about getting out of here now, otherwise he’ll take you too!” –Well, he hasn’t gotten you yet, says the boy, “let’s see how things can go!” Then she sat and bound her ring in his hair beside her sister’s. Now the merman came whistling and roaring, and he had so much water about him that it almost took the princess and the boy with it. That merman had two heads, and he roared: “Are you sitting here with mine!” --  “Well, it was mine before it was yours,” says the boy, “and can certainly become that again!” – “Well, we’ll fight over that.” Then the boy calls for Stærkendreng, he should off him, and he flies at him, but he can’t do it alone, and so he has to call for Snærvind. Now both dogs were on him, and then they destroyed him. The boy took the tongues out and hid them, and then wanted to leave. The princess hung on to him; he should have stayed and accompanied her home, but he didn’t want to do that, and then he left. Then the Red Knight came and threatened her and made her say that it was he who had saved her. A closed wagon came to get them, and he took the dragon heads along home. Then the third day comes, and the third princess is to go off. The two oldest hadn’t blabbered to her after all, but they had whispered to her that a boy with three dogs had saved them. He comes down to her, and when she saw her sisters’ rings in his hair, she bound her ring there too and asked if they could be friends. Then the merman came, and he had three heads and he brought so much water with him he almost managed to wash the Red Knight away as well. He roared: “Are you sitting here with mine!” --  “Well, it was mine before it was yours, and can certainly become that again!” -- “Well, we’ll fight over that,” says the dragon and then the boy sics Snærvind on him. But he couldn’t overpower him, and finally all three dogs had to take hold, and they fought with him for quite a while: they got two of the heads off immediately, but there was a problem with the third one. Finally they got control and ripped that one off too. Now the boy wanted to leave, but the princess asked him to stay and held on to him, and he had to finally promise that he would come again after a while. Then he took the tongues along with him and he went home to the old woman. Then the Red Knight came down and he threatened her and made her promise that she would take him as her husband. Then they got home and he had the heads with him. Now he was greatly honored and the king agreed that he should marry the last princess and they started to prepare for a wedding. Now the boy had traveled off a while but then he had come back again and everything was shining at the castle with decorations and flags. Then he goes in to the old woman and says: “Well, they’re probably married now.” No, they weren’t yet, but the wedding was today. As they are sitting down to the table, the boy says to Burenbrak, he should run up and get them the bottle of wine that was in front of the bride and groom. It does that too, and when the bride sees the dog, she gets so white under her eyes that she almost fainted. The dog comes back with the bottle and then he sends Stærkendreng up to get some of the bread that is on the table, and it had a really hard time getting it. Finally the boy wants to go up and see how they held a wedding and goes up to the castle and takes his dogs with him. When he gets there, the two princesses are walking up and down the floor, whispering. Then the Red Knight asks if the dogs couldn’t be chased out, and the king gets up from the table. But the boy asks if they couldn’t stay, he thought he was welcome, and then he asks the Red Knight if he had gotten that wife honestly. Yes, he had won her by saving her from the dragon, and the evidence was the three heads sitting there!” Then the boy says: “Who has the most right to speak of that, the one who has the heads, or the one who has the tongues?” Then the king understood that this was wrong. He saw the tongues and he put them in the heads, and then the Red Knight had to admit everything. He was sentenced to death and the boy was then celebrated at the table there and he was married to the youngest princess.