Old Villads over here in Ersted--he lived in the westernmost and the southernmost farm--he was so much of a witchmaster that he could talk to these here mound dweller and elves whenever he wanted. There was a hidden man who lived in a hill out on his field, called Kringelbjærg, south of the road to Årestrup, there’s a gravel pit there now, and they called him the Kringelbjærg man. You see, old Villads said he could talk to him whenever he wanted to. So one night, he and Kolde-Per and Søren Østergaard--it was in fact him who later wound up living in Tveden--they sat drinking in the most north-westerly farm here in the town and after they had several drams, Villads begins boasting that he can talk to this here mound dweller, and if they’d follow him up to Kringelbjærg, then he’d call him so they could see him and get to talk to him. Sure, they’d gladly go along, they said, maybe so that he wouldn’t think that this could scare them. So then they leave with each other and then Villads tells them what to do. “Now we’re walk to go three times around the mound, and when I bang three times down on the mound with my staff then he’ll come goddammit.” Well, they walk around the mound and then Villads bangs his staff down on the ground, and calls out to him, “Hey mound dweller, come out here, there are two who want to talk to you.” -- “There are three,” said Kolde-Per. But he wouldn’t come. He hit a second time, and no one came. “Well, when I hit this third time, he’ll come goddammit.” He figured that maybe they’d get scared and run away. Well, then he hit a third time, but no one would come out. At the same time, a dog began barking really loudly, it was Søren Bravlstrup’s from up here near the forest. “Goddammit, now I know what’s happened,” said Villads, “the mound dweller has gone up there, and so he can’t come out to us tonight.” So that’s how Villads got out of calling the mound dweller out, because they have to fill them with lies and whatever else they can when they can't do any better.
     Villads saw the mound dwellers so often, he saw that they walked from Bavnhøj and down to the parish clerk’s sheep path and from there out to Kringelbjærg; and they walked with their arms around each other and were carrying wax torches or candles. Once there was a flock of sheep that got away from him down by Kringelbjærg, and if he hadn’t been as cunning, he never would have got them again; but he read them up, since he had a Cyprianus and his books, and he could talk to Old Jerrik.