1. A farmer was hard pressed by a damn woman
she hit him and gave him little food, until he went out of his mind

2. He used all of his diligence and skill to placate his Birte
but it was all for naught, she continued to complain

3. He went to the market town, he bought beautiful colored fabric for blouses and skirts
he thought that that damn mare would have a change of heart

4. But Birte kept being Birte, that colored fabric couldn’t help
she drove her man from the house, that farmer was miserable

5. One day he accidentally broke a toe off of a pot
she jumped angrily up from the spinning wheel, and offered him the whip

6.He wasn’t late, he grabbed the whip, and she learned a lesson
so she didn’t sleep the whole night because of pain, pain and more pain

7.But see as soon as she started to get better
she went back to her old ways and couldn’t keep quiet

8.Then the farmer said: “I wish you were in Hell with the Devil,
use your mouth there, you horrible mare, and spare me your curses

9. Immediately, the Devil stood at the door, he said, “Dear Farmer,
were you serious when you swore that you wanted me to have Birte?”

10. “Yes,” he said, “take Birte away, I want some insurance
that she won’t come again, to pain and bother me.”

11. The contract was written, the Devil took the poison-mixed woman
to Hell he went with her, and let her go in there

12. She immediately caused a ruckus, she bothered all the devils,
never a day went by when there wasn’t a complaint heard

13. Yes, there came a message from Beelzebub to him, who’d brought her there,
he was to take Birte away, however it was that he managed it

14. The Devil goes off to the farmer and asks him
if he’ll take Birte again, then he’d get gold and rich gifts

15. He then sent two wily men, whom the farmer could house;
when he took the contract back, the Devil was free from bother

16. Now it was rumored in all the land, she could drive out devils,
and so it happened, a powerful man wrote her a letter:

17. My best farmhand is possessed, you must come,
and earn yourself a giant fortune and red gold in your pocket

18. He walks in, but Birte stands behind the door, the Devil asks:
“Who has sent for you, what are you doing here?”

19. Then he said, “My errand is to sell two pair oxen,
but otherwise Birthe is standing waiting for you out here.”

20. With these words, the Devil got scared: “Who called for her?”
That’s what he asks, and immediately leaves, when he hears her name.

21. Then that farmer and Birte went home with gold and rich gifts,
but Birte’s will had to come out, and bothered the farmer 1000 times

22. If you ask, where Birte finally ended up, the one who could scare everyone,
there was no room for her in purgatory, Hell cannot hide her.

23. Now she is in the dark nook that you call the anteroom to Hell,
there she is to stand as a watchdog, she does not like it.
