A girl and a boy worked together at Sønder Tranders Hedegård (Heath farm), and it was a couple of humble people they were with. Their pensioners were dead, and the pensioner’s house stood vacant. Then the farmhand goes and seduces the girl. She goes to the husband and tells him how things were and asks him if she could have permission to stay there in the house and have the child, because her beloved wanted to drive the cattle to Holsten , and it was in the spring he was to leave, that was the custom in the old days. She gets permission to do that, but the farmhand and the girl get married before he left. But the child was born before that and it was a boy, and it was also brought to the church since they had gotten married right away. Well, he went off . When he gets to Holsten and had gotten rid of the cattle, he stayed up there and started to work for a man there. He didn’t want to pay him any wages before he saw how he was and how they hit it off with each other. Well, this cattle driver was happy with that as well. One week after another went by, and the man offered him nothing, and the farmhand didn’t ask for anything either except for what he needed, he got that, and they went on like that for eighteen years and he stayed there as if he was their own. Then he says to the man one day: “Tomorrow I want to go home and see my wife and my son.”—“What, you’re married?” says the man. Yes, he was, and now he’d decided that he wanted to go home, since he missed it. “Well, then we’ll have us a happy day today,” says the man, and they sat down to celebrate. He had put all of his wages together and he wanted to give them to him and it amounted to three hundred daler, that was big money in the old days. So they’re sitting there and talking and drinking and then the man says: “You’ve got a long journey ahead of you, and if you’ll give me a hundred daler, I’ll give you a good piece of advice that will serve you well.” Sure, he’d gladly do that, and they make the deal. The advice was that he must not take any shortcuts, but should follow the true country road. Then they had a few more drams, and then the farmer says: “If you’ll give me another hundred daler, then I’ll give you another piece of advice.” Sure, he’d go along with that. “You must not take lodgings where the fox builds over the raven, because things will go bad for you there.” He keeps drinking with him so long that he gives him all his money back, and then he was to have one final piece of advice, and that was he must not take lodgings where there was a very old husband and a young wife, because things would go bad for him there. And then he wanted to give him another piece of good advice as a bonus, and that was that he shouldn’t do any deed that he wasn’t sure was a good deed before he had said the Lord’s prayer three times. Then the man’s wife says, “Yes, now our father has wasted your time today, but I want to waste a bit of your time tomorrow, since I’m going to bake and you are going to get a nice cake along with you on your trip.” He got the nice cake and the wife told him that he must not cut into it before he got home and if his wife was dead then he was to come back and give the cake back. He promised her that and then he left. The first day he was out on his journey, he came to a peddler and followed along with him because they were going the same way. Then they come to a forest and then the peddler says: “There’s a road through here, which is much shorter than the country road.” He thinks a bit about this, but then he says no, he wants to follow the country road. But the peddler wants to go the other way, and so they split up there. When the peddler had gotten a little ways into the forest, he begins to cry and scream because robbers had come after him. Then the farmhand thought to himself: “I didn’t waste that money that I paid for the first piece of good advice.” He comes a little later to an isolated house in the forest and since it had become evening, he goes up there and asks for lodgings. He could certainly stay there. As they sit there eating dinner that night, there’s an old man sitting at the table with red hair and a black beard. Then the farmhand thinks: “This isn’t going to turn out well for me.” There was a girl who was to show him up to a room upstairs, and then she says: “I feel bad for you.” “Why?” he says. “Well, the robbers aren’t home, this is a robbers’ den you’ve come to, and there’s no one here but the old guy you sat and ate with and talked to. When they come home, they’ll kill you. But there’s a piece of rope hanging here, let me tie it around you, then you can let yourself down out the window and down to the ground.” He thanked her and took the rope, and then he hoisted himself down and went away from there and got away. He keeps going that night and the next day he comes to stay at another farm. There was an old man out in the courtyard and he went over to him and asked if he couldn’t have lodgings. Sure, he certainly could. He could go in to the wife and then he’d come in himself, when he was done mucking out. He went in too and, when he gets inside, another man comes running toward him with his pants around his heels. He saw now that there was a young wife there and then he thought: “This isn’t going to turn out well for me either.” Then the old man comes in. Then she says: “What kind of a person was that you sent in to me, he wanted to get up on top of me like the Devil.” Well, he couldn’t have known that. “Well, that’s true,” she says, “that’s how it was.” Well, then he was to be arrested, says the man, and they sent for the parish bailiff, and two men came to sit and watch the farmhand. During the night, they fell asleep but the prisoner didn’t sleep. Then someone comes to the window, and he says to him: "Well, tomorrow you are going to be driven to the district bailiff and be tried." Yes, he certainly was. “But they won’t believe anything you say, they’ll say the whole time it is a lie. But then you are to say: The one walking outside here shall witness to that. You can see me, but the others can’t, and then I’ll come and tell it as it is. The one who had been on top of the wife and came running out with his pants around his heels, that was their minister, and I doubt that he’ll help out the wife by witnessing for her, it will be enough that he is there as a witness." Well then the time comes, he is to be tried, and they go in there to the courtroom. The farmhand says, as he points at the minister, that he was the one who came at him with his pants around his heels. They said that was a lie. But then the farmhand says: “He will witness to it, the one who is walking outside,” couldn’t he be allowed to call him? Well, yes he was allowed to. The farmhand goes over to the window and calls to him and asks, if he can witness to what he had said. He said yes to that. Then the minister and the wife swore for the Devil to take them, it was a lie, but then this stranger took one under one arm and the other by the neck and then he went off with them, because it was the Devil himself. Then they could see that it was true what the farmhand said, and then he was given permission to go on his way. He went along on his way home. The peddler with whom he had followed along the first day had been killed by the robbers and we don’t hear anymore about him. Well, then he finally gets home and his wife didn’t recognize him. He asks if he can’t stay there. Well, he could stay, but she had no place for him to lie because she only had one bed. Well, he could sit in a chair at night, and so he stays there. When it gets to be bedtime, the wife goes to bed and he sits down in the chair. Then a young man comes in and lies down by the wife in the bed. During the night, someone comes to the window and raps on it and says to the farmhand--and he can hear that it was the same person who had spoken to him before: “That person who is lying there has lain with your wife every night since you left, and if it were me, I’d go over and knock his head off or cut his throat.” Well, he gets provoked too and went over there and was going to cut his throat. But then he remembers what his master had said to him, that he mustn’t do any deed that he didn’t know was good before he had said the Lord’s prayer three times, and so he did that too. Then the person wakes up at once and says: “Oh mother, I dreamed that my father had come home and was here by the bed and wanted to cut my throat.”—“Oh, your father,” she says, “it is eighteen years since I’ve seen him, he probably died a long time ago.” He stood and listened to that, and then he could easily figure out that it was his son that he was about to kill. “No, I didn’t waste the money that I paid for that advice,” he says, “otherwise I would have cut my own son’s throat,” and then he sat down quietly in the chair again, and the one outside the window gained no power with the advice he’d given him. The next morning, when the son gets up, the father wants him to go and get a half pint for him and he did that too, but then he wanted him to drink it with him too. Then the mother says: “No, he may not, he has to go to his work, because he works during the day and lies here at night.” Then he told them who he was and they were very happy with each other. He took the cake out that he had been carrying the whole way and cut into it and then all of the money that he was to have in wages, all three hundred daler, were baked into the cake. So they live well with each other even to this very day, and the last time I was there, I got scalded beer on a sausage and the sausage skin is still sitting on my nose.