The manor lord ordered every man on the manor farm to drive half a cord of wood to Hobro, and Skjel-Jens refused. He had, sure enough, two large, strong horses, but it was his old lady who probably made him do it, she was a bit crazy. Then the foreman came one day when they were baking and threw them out of their house, along with all of their possessions, even the children’s clothing. They had eighteen living children. The wife wound up staying over with Skjel-Peder in Tveden, he was my grandfather, and there she sat with all of the children in their hallway. They put the husband in jail; he was supposed to be there for two months, but he didn’t want to go home again, since he could imagine how bad things were, and so he stayed and died half a year later there in the jail.
     When they threw their possessions out, they also took a really nice grate for roasting herring, and the old lady said, “Yeah, you take that, Satan will roast your soul on it in Hell.” She said to the foreman that she’d go to Copenhagen and talk to the king about this. He said he could accomplish more with his writing in two hours than she could accomplish in Copenhagen in two years. She really did travel to Copenhagen and also managed to talk to the king, but didn’t get anything out of it. He answered that he wasn't an absolute monarch. He in fact was, but he probably believed that he wasn’t the only one who made decisions.
     The same old lady said that she had eighteen children and that she could have eighteen more, if she could have had made them. She had her children go up to the foreman’s office when he was there and shout, "Jörgen Petersen, Palteren, Pommergålten!” and then in addition they swore at him. This foreman lived in Hobro and was called Jörgen Peter Rommedahl, but he had an office in Rold and went there once in a while, but I don’t know for which manor farm he was the foreman. The man whom they chased away lived in Skjelhusene, the place that they call Mylenbjærg these days.