The "Rogue from Mjels" was a farm owner who lived there. One time he saved their minister, who’d run into really bad difficulties. In his day he’d attended the Latin School in Aalborg, and there he’d gone into a restaurant and had eaten three eggs that he hadn’t paid for. This was left unresolved until he was minister in Ferslev. Then a bill came to him for three eggs, and it said that from the three eggs there could have come three chickens, and they could have laid so many eggs, and they continued like that figuring forward, until it was a bill so big that the minister couldn’t pay it. Now he had no idea what he should do, and was in really bad straits since he’d been summoned for it. Then one day the rogue says to him that he’d meet up for him and he’d set things in order. The minister thought this was great. The rogue travels off to Aalborg on the appointed day. He is supposed to appear at a certain time but he waits a half hour longer. When he finally goes in, they ask if he was the one who was to meet up for the minister. Yes, he was. Why did he wait so long? Yes, please excuse him, he had a barrel of boiled peas and he absolutely had to get them planted. “What? Cooked peas can’t grow,” and they began reading up the case to him. “Permission to ask a question,” he says then, “weren’t the eggs boiled or fried or otherwise prepared?” Yes, they were boiled. “You said that boiled peas couldn’t grow, how could you get chicks from boiled eggs?” Yes, they had to admit that that couldn’t happen. Well you’re welcome to reach an agreement with the minister, said the rogue, because otherwise they’d have him to deal with. So they had to give money to the minister instead of getting money from him. Then a while passed and he and the minister were great friends. But then they had a falling out. The rogue was the rogue and he made himself so deathly ill, and the minister was sent for to give him the last rites. Then the minister asks if he has something on his conscience and it would be for the best if he relieved his mind and told him. Yes he did, he had taken life from his first wife. Lord save us, that was a terrible sin. Had he done anything else? Yes, he had p... (pulet – screwed) seven dogs to death. You see the minister heard him out. “Yes, you are a horrible sinner, you must see about turning your life around, it is about time, if there is to be a conversion of such a sinner.” Then he got better, the rogue did, he hadn’t been sick at all. A little later he rides down to the minister with rye for his bread, but he got too close to a water hole and his nag slips into it. The next year he was riding the same way on the same nag, and then he couldn’t get near that hole. Then he said that his nag was wiser than the minister. The minister heard that, and he sued him over that. When they were about to start the case, the rogue says that he’s never hurt him nor told any lies about him. “What did you admit to me when you were sick?” Yes, he hadn’t done anything to be ashamed over. The minister continued to prod him and then he told him how things were. It was really bad weather and his wife was going to deliver, but they couldn’t get a midwife, and so he did it himself. That was the life he’d taken. That was that, but then the minister starts talking about the other crime he had committed. His dog had had seven puppies and they lay under the bed. Then one night he’d been fucking his wife and the bottom of the bed fell out, and they had crushed all of the puppies to death. That’s what had happened. Then the minister had to start in on the complaint that his old nag was wiser than the minister. Yes, the rogue begins to tell that he was a fine upstanding person, and now he had to tell it as it was. The minister had seduced one of his hired girls and had gotten into bad difficulties to avoid being called Father. But the next year he seduced the girl a second time. If the judge didn’t think then that he’d been right to say that the minister wasn’t as wise as the nag when he’d gotten into the ..... (presumably hole, although this is edited from the ms) a second time. The judge had to agree with him. Finally he said that what the minister had brought before the court were things that he otherwise wasn’t allowed to make public, and now he requested that the judge judge him from his position because of that. That happened too, so the rogue wasn’t an easy one to deal with.