There was a horse dealer who came from the south over the fjord and wanted to go to market down here. He arrived at an inn, which is called Langbro (Long Bridge) Inn north of Sundby--at the time the road went over Jerslev bridge. So he sat down inside and had a bite to eat and told the innkeeper that he had four thousand rixdollars with him that he was going to use to buy horses. “It's not worth it leaving here tonight,” said the innkeeper, “it's a mighty thick weather, and a guy we don't trust too well just left here.” He had in fact been sitting inside there and heard the horse dealer talk about the money and then he had left. “Well,” he answers, “I've got to get going. I'm pretty well armed--I've got two good pistols.” Then he leaves. When he got down to the Østbjærg hills east of Tylstrup--that's where the road went through--there was a woods which he also had to go through, and in there just next to the road there was a dale, which was called Tyrens (The Bull's) dale. The robber lived there and he had a den along with a rope across the road with a bell down in the den so he could hear when somebody traveled along the road. The robber comes at him and takes the money from him along with a big white homespun sweater like the ones they used in the olden days with big silver buttons on it. He shot his pistols well enough, but didn't hit him. The man fled when he got away from the thief and arrived at Gammel-Vrå, where he got the huntsman to come with him. He told him what had happened and then he armed himself. When they got down into the dale, the robber was sitting down and had spread the homespun sweater out and was counting the money. The huntsman yells to him to give himself up otherwise he'd shoot. But the robber jumped up and threw his long knife, the blade of which was a foot long, and he wanted to hit the huntsman; but he didn't hit him but rather the saddle just in front of him and it stuck there. Then he shot him immediately, that's how mad he was. But he regretted it as long as he lived that he had to shoot him on the spot because they got no further information about him. My grandfather worked as the coachman at Gammel-Vrå and he knew the huntsman, so this really had happened. So many others were robbed at that spot.