In 1806, there was a count named Feer at Baggesvogn. He was quite hard on his peasants and he tormented and harassed them with work. One day during the harvest all of the peasants were gathered for villeinage and were supposed to drive the grain. There were two peasants who accompanied each other from Sindal and now, as the countess was out walking in the woods, the one says to the other, “That's a beautiful woman.” – “Yes,” says the other, “that's a beautiful woman, it must be fantastic to sleep with one like that.” Then the first one says that he'd gladly give his horses and wagon in exchange for the chance. The countess out in the garden hears this. As soon as they had unloaded their wagons and were going to drive off again, the man gets a message that he should go up to her. Would he stand by what he'd said? Yes, he sure would, he says; but what was it he'd said? Yes, he'd give his horses and wagon to sleep with her. Then she tells the servant that he should unharness the man's horses and drive the wagon down into the courtyard. Then the man went in with her a little bit, it really wasn't too long, and then he thought he was going to get his horses and wagon back, but he didn't get them. Now he has to walk home, and so he’s walking along and complaining, saying: Well, the one was pretty much like the other, he didn't notice that there was any great change, it was still the same. The count was out in the field and he comes up to him as he's walking. He scolds him, why was he walking along and why didn't he have horses or a wagon. “Well,” he says, “the countess took it from me, because she said that my load was smaller than the others', but I couldn't tell that there was any difference, I thought my load was just as big as theirs.” “I see,” says the count, “that's no good, you can follow me home to the farm, then you'll get your horses and your wagon back.” Then they accompanied each other and come in to the countess. “Listen here, my dear wife,” says the count, “is it true that you took the horses and wagon from this man?” “Yes, it is true.” “He says that his load was smaller than the others.” “Yes, it was, too.” “Yes, but you can't be that strict,” says the count. “He is to have his horses and wagon back.” “OK, OK, he'll get them back.” He got his things and he could start driving grain again and then that was done with.