A minister over in Horne complained all the time that they used too much food for the people on the farm; and he could never keep his people if that continued. This was at least a hundred years ago. There were two or three large mounds on the parsonage’s field, and they believed that there were probably mound dwellers in them, but they didn’t know for sure. The minister had a lot of sheep that would graze and he had a shepherd who would guard them. He was lying up there on the mounds at lunch time one day, and then they ring to lunch down at the parsonage. Then they shout down inside the mound, since it turned out it was that mound that the mound dwellers were in, “Now they’re ringing down in the parsonage, now we need to get our hats out.” Then all of these little hats come out of a little hole in the mound. The boy thought that these were some nice hats and so he shouts, “Let me have one too.” All of the hats disappeared, all except one, and the boy got that one. Well, he put it on, and he gets up and goes home and was going to have his meal. He comes in and sits down at the table and keeps the hat on. Then he could see that all these little guys with hats on were sitting there in between all of the people and ate just as fast as they could. None of the people could see them because they had their hats on. Well, he gets up again and nobody had seen him either. Then he comes home driving the sheep that evening, and the people say to him, “Why didn’t you come home and have your lunch today?” He was a real rough guy and he swore up and down he’d been there. Well they didn’t believe him because they hadn’t seen him. “Yes, there were also a lot more people at the table,” he said, “it was a group of little people up from the mound. You couldn’t see them because they had their hats on, and that's why you didn’t see me either.” Then the minister found out and the boy said to him: He could either see the hat or he could borrow it. So he wanted to borrow it. When he put the hat on, the people at the farm couldn’t see him either. Then the minister thought: there’s probably something about this hat. And so he shows up to lunch the next day. The ones from the mound had come as well and he saw how they ate much more than his people. Then he understood how the food was never enough, and since the minister was a wise man, he made it so that they couldn’t come and eat there any longer. Then the mound dwellers left the district because, since they didn’t get any food, they couldn’t stay there, and they didn’t notice them anymore.