At the time when Our Lord and Saint Peter walked on Earth, they came one evening to a place and asked for lodgings. They were given permission to lie there, but a short time earlier the Ridesvends Kræmmer (The Outrider´s Peddler) had also arrived there and had asked for lodgings, and they had also given him quarter. He had already gone to bed, and then Our Lord and Saint Peter also went to bed, but they lay each in their own bed. A little later they heard that the woman of the house had gone into labor. Then Our Lord says to Saint Peter: “Go out and see which stars are in the heavens.” He went out and came back in again and told him. “Well, then we can’t let the child be born yet, because if it is born now, then it will be hung.” The woman lies now complaining in there, and then a little bit later, Our Lord once again tells Saint Peter to go out and see which stars are in the heavens. He comes back and tells him. “No, it still isn’t right, because if the child was born now, then it would be burned.” A little time goes by again, and the woman is lying in there complaining horribly. “Now you can go out and look again.” He comes back and tells him what he has seen. “Yes, now it is OK,” says Our Lord, “because when the child is born now, then he will inherit the Outrider’s Peddler. Then the boy could be born, and he was. Now the Outrider’s Peddler lay in the other bed, and he lay there and listened to this. Then he thought to himself: “That will be one heck of a lie, I’ll make sure of that.” The next morning, he left again, and Our Lord and Saint Peter did too. The child grew well and became a clever lad. Now the Outrider’s Peddler had focused his attention on the boy, and so one time he comes back to that place and asks to have to boy. He told them that he was a peddler, and the parents liked his proposal and they let him have the boy. A couple of days passed, and the boy was doing fine. But then the Outrider’s Peddler writes a letter one day, and he was to take it home to his wife and daughter, and he told him how to get there. It was written in the letter that when the bearer of the letter arrived they were to kill him, and it should be done so quickly that he would be dead before the Outrider’s Peddler came home. So he walks off with the letter, the boy does, but it was a long way, and he gets tired. So he walks past a cemetery, and he decided to go in and lie down a bit to take a rest, and he put the letter under his head. But he was so tired that when he lay down like that, he fell asleep. Now it turned out that it was a Sunday, and there were services in the church. When the people came out, there were some who saw the boy, and they go off and tell the minister that. He comes over to him, and then he also notices the letter which is under his head. Stealthily, he gets a hold of it and opens it and reads what it says. Now he feels a great deal of sympathy for the beautiful boy and goes inside and rewrites the letter so that it says that they should give the bearer of the letter the Outrider Peddler’s daughter as his bride as soon as possible, and exert themselves to have a wedding banquet so that it can all be done by the time he comes home. He now carefully put the letter back under the boy’s head again, and then they all left. Well, the boy woke up after a while, and then he set off again, and finally he gets to the Outrider Peddler’s house and gave the peddler’s wife the letter. She read what it said, and now got busy arranging everything. They had the wedding banquet and had everything done free and clear by the time the Outrider’s Peddler came home. He became so crazed with anger when he heard what had happened. But his wife showed him the letter, and he could see for himself what he had written, she had no fault in this. He became so aggravated that he went and killed himself, and then the boy inherited all of it, there were no closer relatives, and that’s how what Our Lord had said was fulfilled.