The Sultan was very good about keeping an eye on everything and he traveled quite a bit around his kingdom. One evening he arrives at the house of a wealthy grocer and he lodges with him that night. The grocer had but one daughter and no other children. Now the Sultan made himself good friends with her, and it ended up that she got pregnant. When he left, he gave her a thing that she was to bind on the child when it was born, and then he said that if the child ever found itself in danger, then he was to show that badge, and then there was no one who would dare do anything to him. The child was born, and it was a boy, and when he got a little bigger, he went to school. One day he came home and said to his mother: “Mother, they call me a whore’s child.” – “Well, you sort of are, my boy,” she says. “Don’t you know who my father is?” No, she didn’t know. Well, then he wanted to go out into the world and look for his father. So he journeys off, and he came out and started working for a pâté baker, and they came to like him so much that they took him in as their own. That baker was to make pâté for the Vice King, and this boy was always sent up there with them. He grew up, and then the Vice King had a daughter, who felt kindness for the boy. The Sultan continued traveling about and was always disguised. Then he comes to the Vice King’s place and asks him if he didn’t want to journey about as well and inspect the country, they could follow along with each other, and then he was to be disguised too. He said he’d be happy to go along with that, and so they followed along with each other and they listened and asked about this and that. They had disguised themselves as pilgrims, and they came one evening to the pâté baker’s place and asked for lodgings. Well, the baker said that he had a journeyman, and they could stay in his room if it was OK by him, but they didn’t have any other room. They really wanted to stay there, and the young man was asked and he gave them permission to stay in his room with him. Then these pilgrims go to bed, and they had lain there a short while, and the young man thought they were sleeping, and so he opened up for a girl who came to him and it was no other than the Vice King’s daughter. Her father could easily recognize her and he had a hard time controlling himself, but the Sultan kept poking him in the side, telling him to lie still and stay quiet. After she’d been there a while, she left again and the Vice King was very angry at the young man, and he wanted to speak seriously with him about it in the morning, but the Sultan asked him not to forbid the two from seeing each other. Then the Sultan was to go on a longer journey abroad, and while he was gone, the Vice King was to be in charge of everything. There was a bridge that the young man had to cross each time he was to go up to the castle with pâté, and two workers were placed on it with the order that, when he came, they were to grab him and kill him, and as evidence that they had carried out the mission, they were to come and show him blood on their sword. They grabbed him too, but when he realized that they were going to hurt him and kill him, he took his badge up and showed it to them. They said to each other: “That’s the Sultan’s own seal, no one can touch him.” But they had a little dog along with them, so they took it and stabbed it to death. With that, he calmed down. But the young man understood that he needed to hide until the Sultan came home, because otherwise things would go bad for him and the guards. When the Sultan came back, the guards went up to him with the young man’s badge. Then he says, “Where did you get that?” Well, a young man who they were supposed to murder had given it to them. “So, did you murder him?” Well, the Vice King had ordered them to do it, but they hadn’t. Then he asked them to bring the young man to him immediately, so he could make sure that that was true. They did that too, and then he could tell that it was his own son. He sent for the Vice King and asked him if he didn’t think that his son was good enough for his daughter. After that, he decreed that the Vice King should be attached to six horses, and then be dragged to death. After that, the Sultan held a wedding for them, and then his son became the next Vice King after the other one.