Once there was a soldier who had served in the army for thirty years. He was soon going to be eligible to receive a pension but then he dreamed three nights in a row that he was going to become king in Paris, and so he went and asked to be discharged. They said that he was a fool, leaving his pension for the sake of a dream because it would never come true. Then he was discharged and he traveled off. 
     The weather was very warm and he got thirsty, so he went into a forest where there was a stream, and he lay down to drink from it. But then there was a lion lying there on the other side of the stream and it laughs at him when he gets up. "What are you laughing at?" he says. "I'm laughing at you because you want to be king in Paris. You'll become king too, but it is only going to happen after a lot of crap. Now you're going to go through three forests, and someone is going to come up to you in the first forest and ask you if you don't want him to be your servant, but you are not to take him. Then you'll go into the second forest, and yet another person is going to come to you and offer to be your servant, but you're not to take him either. Finally, you'll go into the third forest and the third one that comes up to you, that's the one you should take as your servant, since he'll be true to you, and that is going to be really important for you. Here is a wallet, it can never be emptied of money, and here is a sword, everything that you show its edge to will fall. And here is a hat, it has three corners as you see, and when you spin it, then two hundred canon salvos come out of each corner. Now when you get to the middle of this last forest you will come to a house, and you are to go in there. There is an old hag who lives there and she will ask you to go down to get a candle that is burning down in the cellar. You're to go down and get it but she'll ask you for it before you come up. You should make sure she doesn't get it because then she'll push you back down into the cellar and then she'll kill you. You're to take it up with you and keep it. There is a large genie down there in the cellar, you can call him to you wherever you are, and as soon as you light that candle, he'll come and ask you your command, and then you can always get from him whatever you desire. But since I've now given you all this information about this, I ask that you remember me when you reach a position of honor and respect." Yes, he promised her that and then he traveled on.
      When he had gone a little way, the first person comes up to him and asks if he'd like to have him as his servant. But he says no to that offer. Then he goes into the second forest, and another one comes up to him. He won't take him as his servant either. Finally in the third forest he meets the third guy and asks him if he'll be his servant. "Servant! You don't need a servant!" Well, he really wanted to have him and so he reaches down in his wallet and takes out a handful of money and gives it to him. Well, then he would be willing to be his servant, he saw that he had enough money and then he followed along with him. They come to this little house that the Lion had mentioned, and the soldier went in. The only person there was an old woman, and he said, "Good evening, Mutter!" -- "Good evening, my little son," she answers, "are you here? I've waited so long for you. Would you go down in the cellar and get me that candle that is burning down there?" Sure, and so he went down there. That giant genie was lying down there. When he'd gotten ahold of the candle and was going to come up again, she shouts, "Oh, give me the candle, son, I'm afraid you'll break it." -- "No, I'll take good care of it," he says, and then he came up holding it in his hand, and he showed her the edge of his saber. She immediately fell down dead. Then he traveled on with the candle and his other things.
     When they got out of the forest they were on the outskirts of Paris. Then he says to his servant, "Can you bring us to the nicest inn here in all of Paris?" -- "Oh, God help us," he says, "we'd better go to one of the more simple ones, the nicest one is far too expensive." No, he wanted to go to the very best. Then the servant showed him to one that was right across from the king's castle and they took their lodgings there.
     In the evening as they were sitting there, the old soldier says, "What is that music we can hear?" -- "Oh, that's the King's daughter, she's playing piano." Then he lights the candle, and the genie appears before him. "What does my master desire?" -- "I want you to get me a piano twice as good as the one the princess is playing." Oh sure, the genie traveled off and soon returned with it. And so the next evening, the soldier began playing on it, and the princess hears it. Then she comes and wants to buy it from him. No, he didn't want to sell it, but she offered him a lot of money and he finally let her have it. The next evening, he lit the candle again, and the genie comes and asks, "What does my master desire?" -- "I want you to get the princess over here for an hour every night." Yes, that would happen, and she came too. The genie went and got her every evening. Now over in the castle they noticed that the princess wasn't sleeping well at night and they also discovered that she was being brought somewhere else. To figure out where she was going, they tied a bag of peas around her neck, and so they were able to find out where she was going. There was a hole in the bag and the peas showed them the way. The King gets so upset when he discovers where she's been going that he had the soldier placed in the tower next to the castle, and placed a round-the-clock guard on him. He sat there and then he asked the guard to call for his servant because he couldn't light his candle and his servant had his lighter. No, says the guard, he didn't dare do that. Then he reaches down into his pocket and takes up a fistful of money and throws them out the slot to him. That helped and he went and got his servant. The soldier asks him to get his flint and when he gets it he lights the candle, and then the genie is standing there in front of him again. "What does my master command?" -- "I command you to build me a tower before dawn twice as big as this one and right beside it here outside of the King's windows." Well, things got busy but the next morning when the King woke up and looked outside he had to rub his eyes because he saw the giant tower and couldn't for the life of him figure out where it had come from. He asks around and finally he is informed that the soldier had had it built during the night. Now the King got scared and he didn't dare deny his daughter the soldier any longer.
     So the soldier marries her. Then he asks her to put his hat and his sword away for safe keeping, and he told her about their special qualities. Then she had ones made that were exact copies and had them ready, and no one could tell them apart. Then it happens that war breaks out, and this prince--since the soldier had now become a prince--he was to go out and fight. But he didn't want any warriors with him, he could do it by himself, he said. When he was going off, he asked his wife to give him his hat and his sword, and she came with the copies she'd had made. Now when he got out to the enemy, he spun his hat and said, "Fire!" But no, it wouldn't fire. Then he realized he'd been tricked. He showed them the sword, but it wouldn't do its duty either. 
     The end result was that he was captured, and they built a huge bonfire, he was to be burned on it. As he stood by the bonfire, he asked if he couldn't have a pipe of tobacco before he was to be burned, and they thought it a shame to deny the prince that. He then asked if he couldn't light it with his own flint, and they gave him permission to do so. Then his servant came with it, and then he lit the candle, and then the genie stood there before him again. He said, "What does my master command?" -- "I command you to cut down all of these warriors at the knees!" He did that and then the prince was free. 
     Now he traveled home to his wife and she said that she was so sorry, she had made such a big mistake and she regretted it deeply. Here were the real ones and she gave them to him. Then he showed her the edge of his saber and she fell down dead, killed because of her unfaithfulness. Now he was back to his worthy position again and he remembered the lion who had been so good to him and was still lying by the stream waiting. So he traveled off to her, and she became very happy when she saw him and said, "Will you chop my head off now?" He didn't want to do that, but she begged and pleaded, and so he did that, and then she turned into a beautiful and much wished for princess. So he married her and they lived the rest of their lives as King and Queen in Paris, and had a wonderful life.