In the old days, wedding banquets were held on Fridays, and on Saturday there was a second day of banqueting. And then on Sunday every man and woman in the banquet party met and drove to church and back together. Then there was a third day of banqueting. On that day, they were supposed to be served egg stew, that’s to say boiled beer with egg and toasted bread. On the first day, they were served meat stew and sow meat and roast and sister cakes (wheat cakes); on the second day soup and sauce meat, rice porridge and fish. In our district the provisioners served and then there were three waiters (smoner)  and three hired girls (forgangs piger) who would help the provisioners by carrying the food in and serving it. The waiters competed with each other to see who could ride the fastest to the church, and the horses were about to collapse, and they rode back home just as fast and announced outside of all the windows that the bridal pair were now married. Then they rode back to them. There was also an inviter. They used a poor woman for this. She was given a cup of oats at every farm and then she was supposed to wash the dishes and she was called the Slatopkok. There was also a cook (female), just as there is now. When the provisioner brought the first platter of rice porridge in, they shot three shots outside of the windows, and it was supposed to appear that he got so scared that he fell down right on the threshold into the main room and spilled the platter with the porridge, but then they were lucky that it was only sand. He complained bitterly that this had happened. “That’s too bad,” he said, “they shot just as I came in.” – “You got scared,” said the guests, “Yes, and it wasn’t without a reason.” Then when they were supposed to dance; the groom was to be danced out of the party. At my great grandfather’s wedding, it was so frenetic that sweat poured off of him. The others lay on top of him out there on the floor, since there was a dance room out there. They really fought over him, because the young guys wanted to keep him, but the men wanted him, and then they wound up fighting while trying to put the red cap on his head.