There were two old people and they had just one son. One day he thought that he was tired of staying at home all the time and so he requested to be put into an apprenticeship. “What type of apprenticeship would you like to be put into?” said his father. Well, he’d most like to be a cobbler, because it would be good to get some shoes. The old couple were well off, and so they drive him off to a cobbler and reach an agreement with him to take the son as an apprentice. They were to give him four hundred daler for that and then he was to be good to him. He starts the apprenticeship, the son does, and he became a very talented cobbler. Then the cobbler says to him, “I can’t teach you anything more now, and so now it is best that I write to your parents that they can come and get you.” “No, you should write that I’m a fool who can’t learn a thing and that I’m no longer interested either.” The cobbler had to write that too and the parents had to come and get him. Well, they doubted quite a bit that he’d lost all interest, since he’d been at home the whole time. Then the son comes home again. “There’s nothing wrong with the fact that you didn’t become a cobbler,” they said, “since you can stay here with us at home for a while, we have plenty for you to do.” After he’d been at home for a little while, then he asks if he can’t start another apprenticeship. “Sure, what type of apprenticeship would you like now?” “A goldsmith apprenticeship,” he says, “since that’s clean work and I really would like that.” Sure, the parents had nothing against that either and so they take him to a goldsmith and ask him what he wants to teach their son the profession. Well, he wanted four hundred daler. Well, then you have to teach him well, he had one apprenticeship before, but he wasn’t interested in it.” He promised and then they were happy to give him the money. He comes to the goldsmith and is there for a while, and he learned so well that he had now become better than the master and was able to do things that the master couldn’t. Then the goldsmith says, “Now I’d better write home to your parents that they can come and get you, because now you’ve been fully taught.” “No, don’t write that, you should write that I don’t have any desire to be a goldsmith, and that I’m a fool who can’t learn anything.” Well, that’s not what he thought, but in the end the boy got him to write that. The parents came for him and they said, “That’s what we expected, he’s been at home with us the whole time, and he’s had an apprenticeship before, and that didn’t lead to anything. But he can stay at home with us, since we have enough.” He came home and stayed there a while. Then he says, “I think I want to have another apprenticeship, now I’ve decided I’d like to go and learn the speech of birds.” They thought that was strange, but he was used to getting his way, and he wanted to head off. Then his father goes along with him to the man who knew the speech of birds, and arranges with him to teach his son, and he was to get four hundred daler for that. But then you’d better teach him well, because now he’s been an apprentice twice, and that hasn’t led to anything.” Yes, he’d certainly do that, and the son begins the apprenticeship and becomes so good at the language that he could understand every bird. After he’d been there a while, the master says, “Well now I’m going to write home to your parents, since you’re good enough now that they can come and get you.” “Yes, you can certainly do that,” says the boy, “then you’ll have that pleasure.” He comes home again and after he’s been at home for a little while, a bird comes one day and sits and sings: “What is it singing?” says the mother. “It's singing that I am going to go out traveling soon.”—“What are you going to go out traveling for?” – “I don’t know, it's just singing that.” Then another bird came, and it sang too, he was to go out traveling, because there was so much good waiting for him. The mother didn’t like this. Then a third bird came and sang. “What is it singing?” asks the mother. “It is singing that I am going to come home so fine that you won’t recognize me and that you’ll take out the silver platter and let me wash myself in it.” – “That will never happen, that I’ll take my silver platter and let you wash yourself in it,” says the mother. “OK, but now I’m going to go,” says the son, “because the bird keeps singing about that,” and then he set off on his journey. First he came to a cobbler who lived close to the castle and worked for the royals. Just then, a message comes from the princess, that she’d lost one of her shoes and now she wanted the cobbler to make her one just like it. But he didn’t think that he could sew such a beautiful one since he’d gone up to the castle to look at it. But then he remembered that he’d just gotten a new journeyman and it could be that he was talented enough to do it. He goes home to the journeyman and talks with him about it. “Sure, I can sew that,” he says, “I’ve often done such fine work.”  Well it was to be done by the next day. “It certainly can be done by then,” he says. He goes out to the workshop and is to sew this here shoe, and the cobbler went and looked in on him through the door now and then, he didn’t think he was doing anything. But the next morning it was done and the cobbler goes down to the castle to the princess with it. When she sees it, she asks if she can’t see the journeyman. The cobbler goes home and says that the princess wants to talk with him. He goes down there and when she sees him, she wants to have him. But he wasn’t interested in that yet. He wants to go to a goldsmith because he’d also learned that profession. Then another message comes to the goldsmith from the princess asking if he’d make her a gold finger ring, and it was to be the most beautiful one that he could make. A messenger was sent for him, but he said that he was afraid that he couldn’t make one as shiny as she wished. But he’d just gotten a journeyman and he’d ask him about that, if he could make it, because he was apparently quite talented. He comes home and talks to him about it. “Sure, I can certainly make that,” he says, “I can make rings and everything.” It was to be done by the next day, and now he was going to start smithing it. The goldsmith goes and looks in on him through the door, but he didn’t really think that he was doing anything. Then the next morning he goes in there and asks about it. “Yes, it's been done for a while,” says the journeyman, and then the goldsmith goes down to the princess with it. It was the shiniest ring she’d ever had, would the journeyman come down to her, she wanted to see him. Sure, the goldsmith goes home and arranges it, and the journeyman goes down to the castle. When the princess sees him, she says: “Don’t you want me?” Sure, he says, since she really wants to, he’d agree now. Then the king calls him in to him and he talks to him about it, and when he has been reassured about how things stand, then he gives his permission, and they can have each other and then he was to get the kingdom as well. They hold a wedding and that was all quite nice. After the two had been together for several years, he asks her one day if she would like to follow him home and visit his parents. Sure, she says yes. “Yes, they’re fine and they have plenty to live off.” The horses are hitched up and they drive off. When the wagon comes into the farmyard, the husband and wife were sitting inside and they say, “Jesus Christ, what kind of fine strangers have arrived! What are we going to do with them?” says the wife, “we don’t have fine rooms to which we can show them.” – “Oh, the rooms are good enough,” says the husband, “just let them come in.” He goes out and helps them out of the wagon and gets them inside. Then he asks them if they’d like something to eat. Yes, they would; could they stay there that night? “Oh good Lord,” says the wife, “we only have one guest room,” would they be OK staying there? Sure, they’d be delighted, they’d be more than happy. The wife got up early the next morning and she went and looked to see if they were going to get up soon. Finally they get dressed and she comes with some water in her silver platter, they were to have that to wash themselves in. Then they were to come in and eat. Then the prince says, “Listen, you two old people, don’t you have any children?” – “Oh, dear God,” they say, “we had a single son, but he has journeyed off from us, we had him in many apprenticeships, and it didn’t help any.” – “Would you recognize him?” says the prince. “Yes,” says his mother, “he has a mark on his left arm, it is a red spot and when I see it, then I will recognize him.” He unbuttoned his shirt and showed her the mark. “Oh, dear God, is this my son?!” – “Can you see now,” he says again, “that you’ve taken the platter and let me wash myself in it, just as the birds sang, and you said that it would never happen. I’ve had a wonderful journey and married the princess.” Then the two talk with them, and asked if they didn’t want to come home with them. “Well, what would we do with what we have?” says the father. “You can share it amongst the poor,” says the son. “Well, then we’ll gladly go and be with our son,” says the mother, and then it was arranged like that, and they followed them to the castle and stayed there for the future. And then they discovered that he’d learned his crafts thoroughly.