There was a husband and wife, they had a tiny little holding and couldn’t make ends meet. As long as the wife had some canvas to sell, she would giver her husband one piece after another, so that he could get a shilling to cover their expenses, but finally it was over with that, and finally it got so bad that they didn’t have anything left that they could convert to money but their cow. Then the husband asks if he shouldn’t pull it off to market and sell it. Yes, the wife thought that he should do that; there was nothing else to do and it was best to have a roof over their heads as long as possible. He pulls it along and along the road he meets a man who was walking along in a strange outfit. He was wearing a big long cape that reached all the way to his heels even though it was still summer. They follow along with each other, and the man asks him if he was headed to market. Yes he was, now things had gotten so bad that he had nothing but his cow to sell. “Will you sell it to me?” asks the stranger. “Yes, I certainly will, if you’ll give me enough for it.” Well, he had a bottle and he’d give him the bottle for the cow. “A bottle?” says the man. “Yes, you’ll be quite pleased with this bottle when you get home. You can let your wife spread a tablecloth on the floor and then set the table on it. Then you can take the stopper from the bottle and then you can wish yourself whatever you want, even if it is dishes from the royal table, the table will be set with that.” That wasn’t so bad, thought the man, and so they traded, and he went home with his bottle. When he gets home, Maren asks: “Well, what did you get for the cow?” – “I got a bottle!”—“A bottle?” she says, utterly dismayed, and then he told her the whole thing about the man and how he looked. Yes, the wife knew him well, that was one of the mound dwellers. Now they were going to try the bottle, and they were going to wish. The man thought that he wanted roast goose and there it was on the table. He cut into it and the body was stuffed with coins, and they spilled out onto the floor. Now they were happy, now they’d gotten plenty for their cow, and had lots of money for their expenses. “Well, we can wish for more another time,” says the husband, and they sat down to eat. When they were finished eating, it all disappeared back into the bottle and the man put the stopper back in. Now it went well for them for many years, and the neighbors couldn’t understand how they’d managed such a change. One day one of the neighbor men comes by and wants to talk to them about it, he’d become so curious. Finally, the husband has to tell how he’d traded the cow and gotten a bottle for it. Then the neighbor asks if he didn’t want to sell the bottle. No, he really didn’t want to, he was going to hold onto it. Then the neighbor man went off with that answer, but the next day he came again and continued to talk about the bottle, and he absolutely wanted to buy it from him. Finally he convinces him to sell it to him. But when Søren Jensen no longer had the bottle, then all his luck disappeared as well, and finally it went so bad for him that he had to go and sell his cow again to get money for his expenses. As he is heading off to market, the same person who he’d dealt with comes to him again and he asks if he wants to trade again and get a bottle for his cow. Yes, he certainly did, and they soon seal the deal. He comes home quite happy with the bottle, and tells his wife what kind of deal he has made again. She was also satisfied with it and they went to set the table, but when they take the stopper out of the bottle, two evil spirits come out of it and they begin to beat on Søren Jensen. It was the wrong bottle he’d gotten there, but then he comes up with the idea that he’ll trade it with the neighbor, who had gotten the first bottle. He comes up to him and says, “Now I’ve gotten a new bottle, and it is much better. Would you like to swap with me?” Yes, he was quite eager and would gladly trade. They finished the deal and Søren Jensen goes off. But now the other one was going to try his new bottle and he gets the stopper off. Then the two devils come and beat wildly on him. Now he gets really mad at Søren Jensen, and goes over and gives him a real beating. There were others too that he’d gotten to help him and now Søren Jensen wasn’t doing too well. But there was nothing more to say about that other than he could have kept his bottle.