A girl had gone out to get peat one evening and then she comes in and says that she had gotten scared. “What could  you possibly have gotten scared of out in a peat-house?” says the farmhand “Nothing ever scares me.” Well, if he’d follow her out with the lantern, then they could see what it was. He lights the lantern and they go out there. It was a hedgehog, lying in the peat, and so he teased her a lot. “That was nothing to be scared of,” he says, “no you'd need to find something else if he was going to get scared,” and he spoke big words. He had heard that there was an inn where there were ghosts and now he decided that he wanted to go there and asks to stay there. “Well, it won’t do any good for you to stay here tonight,” say the people, “no one can stay here, we have another house to stay in at night.” But he wanted to stay there and see what it was, and he was given permission to do that. There was always supposed to be a bed made up there and he was given permission to lie in it. He settles down when everyone else has left, and when it was up toward 12 o’clock, and he had gotten nice and warm in the bed, someone comes and wants to get into bed with him. “Ooh, you’re so cold,” he says, “but never mind, come in to me, you can warm up.” And so he did that, and now he came to life and told him that he was the old innkeeper there in the inn and he’d buried a lot of money. That was what he was haunting for, since he was supposed to disclose it. He asks him to follow him to the place where they were buried. It was down in a cellar and they were in a big pot. Then he asks him to take the money he wanted and the rest he was to give to those he’d duped, then he hoped to have peace. After that he slept peacefully until the morning. That morning, the people came back and there he lay and slept soundly. Then they called him and asked how he was. Well, he was fine. Such and such had happened. The innkeeper who’d been there before had done so much injustice and he wanted to disclose the thing with the money, that’s why he haunted. Now there was the pot of money and he brought them down into the cellar and they got them up. Now they were to let everyone know who’d been duped that they could get their money back and that happened and since then there was never anyone who haunted in that inn again. Then the farmhand journeyed on, because he wanted to keep traveling until he got scared. He comes to a castle, and he’d heard that they couldn’t stay there either, and now he wanted to try if he could get scared there. So he asks if he could stay there at night. “Oh, good lord no, no one can stay here at night,” they say, “we have to leave every night ourselves, there’s so much haunting and bad stuff here. No, we can’t stay here, everyone who stays here gets killed.” “Well, there’s no danger of that,” he says. But he does want a slave to stay with him, and then he’d try to stay there an entire night. Sure, that was fine, and so one was brought out who was to stay with him. When they are finally alone with each other, he started to look around. There was some ham hanging in the chimney and then they were going to boil themselves some peas, since he’d gotten hungry. So he tells this slave to go get some firewood and then some water, and then they’d start a fire. The slave left too, but he didn’t come back. The farmhand couldn’t figure this out and he goes out to see what has happened to him. Then he’s lying there with his nose bent all the way up in his ass and was dead. “What are you lying there for?” he says, but he didn’t answer. So he goes in with the firewood and lights a fire and boils his peas, and after that he goes to bed. Then twelve men come in with a coffin and they put it in front of the bed he was lying in, and they take the cover off. The man who lay there in the coffin, he gets up and wants to get into the bed with the farmhand as well. “That’s rough how cold you are,” he says, “don’t you want some warm peas to warm you up?” He answers yes to that, and when he has eaten, then he says, “Thank God for that dinner, it's been many years since I had that much to eat. But now I can be just as good to you as you’ve been to me. Now follow me down to my cellar.” The farmhand gets up and follows him, and then he sees three pots that have been buried there, and they were full of money, all three. He had been the king of the country and he’d taken too many taxes, that’s why he couldn’t get any rest in his grave. Now the money should be brought out into broad daylight again. The first pot was to go to the current king in the country, he could take some money from the second pot, and the rest was to be dealt out amongst the people in the country. He promised to do that, and then the king went back into his coffin again, and the twelve men came and carried him away. The next morning, the people came back to the castle and the farmhand was sleeping so soundly, he had woken from the night. They call to him and ask him now how he was. Well, he was really very well, he says. Could he tell them why there was so much unrest at night? “Yes, I certainly can, it's the old king, who is haunting, and it's because of some money he was to disclose because he took too many taxes from his country.” He showed them where the cellar was and told them how they were to be given out. Now they were busy with the money in the country and got them distributed. He got some himself, the king got a third, and the rest were given out to the subjects. Now he’d gotten them quiet there and he journeyed off, but he still hadn’t gotten scared. Then he comes to another castle and there was a great commotion there. He asks as usual to stay there, and the people say that no one could stay there because there was so much haunting, and such horror, since everyone had been killed who’d stayed there. “It doesn’t matter if I get killed, just let me stay.” He stayed there the night but it was a dangerous tumult. A lot of warriors came with weapons and they fought in where he was. Then he got really scared and lay under the covers the whole time and didn’t dare let them see him. He never found out what it was, and nothing was revealed, and so he didn’t free them there at that castle. But now he’d traveled so long that he’d gotten scared.