When I was out doing my last inspection, Michael Fox came up to me and asked me if I couldn’t carry him a bit in my shoulder bag, because the hunters wanted to shoot him, and he’d give me three promises, and they were that I could turn myself into an ant, into a lion and into a duck. After we’d gone a little bit, the dogs came running after me, and behind them the hunters came too. They said that I must have some fresh slaughtered meat in my bag, but I said that I didn’t have anything other than the rags that I couldn’t sell or get anything for, and I certainly was allowed to have whatever I wanted to in my bag, and would they please call their dogs off. See, then they called their dogs off and then when I’d gone a little farther, Michael said to me that I could let him go now because there wasn’t any danger anymore. When he’d gotten out of my bag and run off, I wanted to test if there was anything to these promises he’d given me. I turned myself into an ant first and that went well enough. But I didn’t get far down the road running there like an ant, so I turned myself into a duck and flew so far, so far away until I came to another kingdom. I fell down right in front of the princess’s windows and she saw me and had never before seen such a beautiful bird. She opened the window and put some rusks in the windowsill, and I was so hungry that I started to eat them. She placed the rusks on the table and I flew in. Then she slammed the window shut, and now I was inside with her. The first day I stayed a bird, but then the next night I wanted to try to lie with her and so I turned myself into a man again. She shouted: “Father, father, there is a man here in my room!” and he came running in there, but I immediately turned myself into an ant and went under the bed. Now they couldn’t find me, and then the king said that she’d dreamed it. I did the same thing the third night. She called for her father and he came, but I was an ant and sat under the bed. Then the king said that if she tricked him again, she’d be punished because he didn’t want to be called like that anymore. Then after I’d turned myself into a man again and she noticed that I was there, she talked to me and we got to know each other well. It continued like this for a while. One day when the king had come in there, she said to him, “I want to have that bird.”—“You already have it,” he says. “Yes, but I want to have it as my husband.” “That’s a strange husband,” says the king. “Yes, well he can also turn himself into a man.” “That’s something,” says the king, and at that moment, I turn myself into a man, and stood there and talked with them. “Well, since you can do so much,” he says, “then you can bring home the princess that the mound dweller took several years ago, and when you come with her, you’ll get my daughter.” Yes, I didn’t know if I dared take on that task. Yes, I had to, now the king had gotten set on that, and so I had to go out and wander again with my shoulder bag on my back. Finally I came to an inn where they sat and talked about this mound dweller, and I learned where the mountain was. I got out there, turned myself into an ant, and crawled down there. Right at that time, the princess was home alone, the mound man was somewhere else, wherever it was. “Jesus Christ, how did you get in here?” she says. Yes, I’d come here. “Oh, you’re unlucky,” she says, “you’ll never get out of here alive,” and then she showed me into the first room, there was a closet there with lots and lots of human skulls in it. Next I came into the second room, there was a closet with lots and lots of clothes, and finally I came into the third room where there were lots and lots of dead bodies lying about. Then I say to her, “Now when he comes home, and you go to bed tonight, you are to ask him where his heart is, because he can’t have it with him, since he can kill so many people.” Yes, she’d certainly do that. Then he’ll probably say, “There is Christian blood in here, but you should answer him that he knows darn well that you are Christian.” “Yes, you have to leave now,” says the Princess to me and is so worried. “No, I’ll put myself under the bed in the shape of an ant, because I want to hear how he answers you.” Well, then the mound man came and they had their dinner and went to bed. Then she asks him where his heart was. “You can’t have it with you, since you can kill so many people.” “Ugh, there is Christian blood in here,” he says. “Oh, you know darn well that I’m Christian,” she says. But he wasn’t satisfied with that, and he gets up, and they looked in all of the rooms. But they didn’t find anything, and he had to go back to bed. She asks him again where his heart was. “My heart, no one can get that, it is inside an egg, and the egg is inside a duck, and that duck is inside a fox, and that is inside a dragon, and that dragon is at a manor farm. If they don’t give it seven fat swine each weekday, it will destroy the land and kingdom.” When I’d heard that, I climbed up out of the mountain again, and I went off to the manor farm. I go up to the manor lord and ask him if he didn’t need a farmhand. Yes, he certainly needed a farmhand since there was a dragon that lay waste to so many of his herdsmen. He did that whenever the swine he was to have weren’t fat enough. “But you probably don’t want to have that job.” – “Sure, it’s all the same to me,” I say, “I can probably lay waste to him.” OK, so I got the job. The first day I was to go out with the swine, and I was given seven fat swine to drive. Then I get to the dragon, “Good day, Dragon,” I say. “Thank you,” he says. “Are you to have these fat swine?” – “Yes, that’s what I’ve gotten each weekday.” “Let’s fight for them,” I say, and then I turn myself into a lion and then I fight him. Finally he says, “If only I’d had one of those swine, then I would have torn you into such small pieces that they wouldn’t have been able to pick all of you up even in eight days.” And I said that if I’d had a bite of bread and a dram, then I would have torn him into pieces so small it would be as if he’d been crushed in a mill. Then he gave in, and I won the swine and came home to the manor lord with them. He was afraid of the dragon and was worried that he’d destroy his land and kingdoms like he’d threatened, but I was a fit young man and showed him the swine. It’s good for him to go hungry a bit, I say. The next Monday, the manager was to come along to see how things went. I had fourteen fat swine with me, because the manor lord was afraid of keeping them. “Good day, Dragon,” I say. “Thank you,” it says. “Do you want these fat swine?”—“Yes, I could certainly use them.”—“Sure, let’s fight for them,” and I turn myself into a lion and we fight for life and death over them. We have the same conversation and the manager stood there and listened to that. Finally, the dragon got tired of fighting with me, and then I went home with my swine. But the manor lord still couldn’t settle down, and he wanted me to go off with twenty-one swine the next Monday. The manager was to come with me, and he was to bring a bite of bread and a dram to give me when I asked for it. We started fighting for the third time, and after we’d fought for life and death for a while, the dragon says, “If only I’d had one of those swine, then I would have torn you into such small pieces that they wouldn’t have been able to pick all of you up even in eight days.” But I said: “If I had a bite of bread and a dram, then I’d tear him into pieces so small it would be as if he’d been crushed in a mill.” The manager immediately jumps in and stuffs it in me, and then I went to it again and got power over the dragon, so now I’d won the twenty-one fat swine. I tore the dragon to pieces and killed him, and then a fox came out. I tore that one apart and killed it too, and then a duck flew out and sat down on a stone in the sea. I turn myself into a duck and flew out after it. I tear it to pieces and kill it, and then an egg falls out, and it sinks to the bottom of the ocean. I go down after it, and then I got the egg in my shoulder sack and go back to the manor lord. He wanted to give me so much, since I’d saved him from the dragon, but I wasn’t too interested, and I set off to get back to the mountain. When I got there, he was lying on top of it and was so sick. “Oh dear God...,” he says, “is it you that has my heart?”—“Yes, it is.”—“Oh, can’t I have it back?”—“Yes, if you’ll send the princess you have down there with you back to land, and just as nice and healthy as when you took her.” Yes, he’d certainly do that. Then he went down and got her and she came to land. Then she followed me home to her father’s land, and they were all so happy when I came with her, that it was almost dangerous. I was now to have the princess and half of the kingdom immediately, and the other half when the king died. But God have mercy, those who have a lot want even more. The eighth day after the wedding, I stood looking out over the castle, and I saw a flock of wild geese. I turned myself into a duck and flew up and wanted to have them, but then they grabbed on to me, and they flew with me to the third Bærmose (Bær swamp) and then I fell down. That’s how I came here and could tell you this lie.