There was a manor lord who lived in Illerup who was called Hjelmslev, and he was a man who was renowned for being immensely strong. If he sat in a chair and seven farmhands bound a rope around him, they couldn't pull him from the chair. He had a sword which had a name I can't remember nor its length. This manor lord ruled the peasant farms in that area. Half way between Dover church and Illerup there were two single farms (enestegårde), and in one of them there was a man who had six sons, but they wouldn’t do a thing and then they couldn’t pay their debt and the manor lord forced them out of the house, and nobody came to live there afterward since it had been so damaged that nobody could live there, and so he put the land under another farmstead. That man’s name was Poul, but the one who got chased away was named Klaus. Now these seven vagabonds had nothing to eat, and since the manor lord was the reason they didn’t have any bread, they swore that he’d experience misfortune, but first Poul would get what he had coming to him since it was him who’d gotten their property. They disappeared completely from the area, and people neither heard from them nor asked about them for quite a while. So then people thought they were dead and gone. Poul had been afraid for a while, but now he felt safe again. Then late one winter evening, a potter came and wanted to stay at Poul’s place and since he was a kind person, he said yes as usual. The man wanted to get his wagon under cover, but it wasn’t possible because back then people didn’t have as large houses as they do now. The wagon wound up being parked just outside next to a pond of water. Just about bed time, the hired girl went out to get a bucket of water and then she hears some people speaking inside the wagon. So she goes over and listens and it turns out to be one of Klaus’s sons and Klaus himself who are lying there talking, wondering if the people weren’t going to go to bed soon, it was ridiculous how long it was taking. While she’d been out, they’d set up a bed for the other one, and he had already gone to bed. Then she tells Poul what she’d heard, and they go quietly outside together and tip the wagon with all the pots and everything else down into that water hole. Then they go and wait behind the end of the house and stand there listening, because the hole was close by. Then they see the other one come jumping out of the window, but there wasn’t anything for him to do, since the other two had drowned and when he realizes that, he runs away and leaves the horses and the wagon there. Then a little while passed, but in the quiet week just before Maundy Thursday, a poor person came running as fast as he could to Poul and told him that he’d been sleeping in a barn out on Sjelle heath the previous night and he’d lain there and listened to how five people had discussed visiting him Maundy Thursday morning, and then they’d kill him. But because Poul had been nice to him, he’d do him the favor of coming over and telling him about it. Poul didn’t know what to do. He couldn’t run away from it all and desert his house and cattle, since then they’d just destroy everything. By the same token he could be destroyed himself if he just ate up the day. When it started to get really light, he started to get uneasy. Then the manor lord Hjelmslev came riding by on his way to church. Poul went out to him and told him how things stood concerning these five guys. “Well, it's possible that it's nothing other than a way to trick us, but it can also be true. So if you’ll treat me to a good meal, then I’ll watch out for them, and if they come, I’ll make up for it.” You see, now they had to serve up a meal for the manor lord who was a really big eater, and they got busy with all of the preparations. The only pork they had was a shoulder of pork, and he got an egg as well and he ate it all. Just as they were sitting there, right in the middle of the meal, the Dover church bell rang the last time, and as soon as it was done, the robbers began pounding on the door. Then the manor lord says, “It’s annoying how eager they are, can’t you tell them I’m not done yet?” Poul also talked to them but they didn’t pay too much attention to him. “Well, sit down for a little while by the door, for God’s sake, I want to finish.” Now they pounded again, but it was a little door and they couldn’t really get at it, and he said that if they’d wait just a second, he’d open the door voluntarily. So, satisfied, they gave them a moment. He finished soon and then he got up from the table and took his saber and then said to Poul that he could open the door now, but they better not come more than one at a time. Poul did just so, so that they only came through one at a time, and then the manor lord stood inside and chopped their heads off as they came in and kicked their bodies aside. They didn’t suspect a thing, even though they thought that it took a while, but they didn’t manage to warn each other when they first had gotten inside, because then it was immediately kaput. When the last one had been killed, the manor lord said, “Now I’ve made up for the meal.” From that time on, the church has been called Dover church, and the place where the robbers were killed has been called the Hjelmslev ground. It was a small holding and now it’s a house which is called the Hjelmslev house.