There’s a king's ransom out in Silkeborg forest and a large oak stands over it, but it's sanded over. There was a man who invested a lot in digging it out and they had dug so far down that they had come to the roots of the oak. But they didn't get further than that because just as fast as they dug, the sand slid back into the hole. They could work as hard as they wanted, they couldn't get any further down. My grandfather was at a place where there was a king's ransom. It was by the side of a mound and when one stands on the mound and looks down at a certain time, four o'clock in the afternoon actually, and looks straight down at the foot of it then one can see a large square stone with inscriptions on it. But it's illegible and if one goes to look, then there is nothing but earth. They dug after that too and they'd also found the stone but this man was more careful than most others who dig for that kind of thing since he had gone over to the Black School in Copenhagen and he had gotten himself a blue candle there. Wherever the candle burns, there is no treasure to be found, where it goes out, that's where one should look, that is where the treasure is. It turned out to be true enough because, when he lit the candle, it burned every place except there, it couldn't burn there. Then he and his farmhand started to dig for it and all sorts of animals came and wanted to disturb them because they couldn't speak or leave. They had gotten so far that they had the handle of the kettle. Then a giant buck elk appears and it begins to scrape his hand, the one who had hold of the axe, and then he couldn't keep quiet any longer and said: “No, if you're Old Erik himself, I won't let go.” All of a sudden, without them being able to understand it, the men and the picks and shovels lay on each their side of the mound and it was leveled like it had never been dug up before. They tried to dig again but they didn't get to it again because a king's ransom sinks twice as deep the next time when someone has dug for it.