Kristen Sø could take the Hammel church bell and stand and ring it between his legs, yet it took six men to hoist it up using block and tackle when they were done building the tower. There came a contraption—it was a person—over from England, who was supposed to break horses, and he became a bit too brave, since he could knock any and everyone to the ground. While he was in Copenhagen, he offered five hundred daler to the person who could get him to the ground. So now the count and a couple of gentlemen get to talking about this, and the count says, “I have a man on my estate who can get him down.” So he sends for Kristen Sø. When he comes up to Frisenborg, the count says to him, “Listen, Kristen, you like to earn money by chance, so here’s a job, wouldn’t you like to try it? I’ll pay for your trip over there and your expenses, as long as it lasts.” – “Sure,” says Kristen, since he was cautious when he spoke, “but it depends on what the job is.” – “Well, now you’ll hear,” and so he tells him all about it. “Nahh,” says Kristen, “I don’t think I can do that, since I work too much and get too little food.” So we can hear that Kristen was a bit of a rogue. And the count became even more eager. “Oh, is it nothing more than that?” he says. “How many days do you think you need to live well for?” – “Well, I think I’d better have fourteen days’ time.” – “OK, you come up here to the farm tomorrow,” and with that things were decided. Kristen now went and enjoyed himself during those fourteen days and didn’t have to work. See, that wasn’t too bad. When he heads off, he says, “OK, I’m not guaranteeing that I’ll knock this fellow over.”—“OK, just do what you can, we can’t expect anymore than that,” says the count. And so they start fighting and the agreement was that they were supposed to knock each other to the ground three times. The English guy grabs a hold of him and he worked on Kristen so that it crunched. Finally he knocks him head over heels. Then he was going to start working on him again. Then Kristen says quite gently, “It isn’t worth working so hard since you’ve got to do this two more times.” He could understand enough Danish that he realized that Kristen was poking fun at him. This time he knocked him to his knees. But then Kristen got angry, because he hurt himself. Then they were going to go at it for the third time. But then people got to see how strong he was. He grabbed the guy’s belt and drove him down toward the ground so that he never was much of a person after that. The lord was happy when he came home, and said, “That was really well done Kristen,” and he was also happy since he’d earned five hundred daler by chance.
     A man came from the west and wanted to find him. Kristen had no more land than was enough for a pair of oxen, and he went and plowed with them. He took hold of one of the plow horns and pointed the way with it. “Well, then I certainly don’t need to ask where I’d find the man.”
