There was an old man, he went about begging as was the custom in the old days. So he goes in to one place and they didn’t have anything for him except for a very large goose egg. So he takes it and goes his way. Now he thought that it would be nice to get that egg hatched, and he figured he could probably do it himself. “Now I’ve begged for a long time, so I can certainly handle lying and resting while I take care of this.” Well, then he lay for a while, and something came of it, and it turned out to be a boy. The man wasn’t terribly proud of this, but there was nothing else to do but to see that the boy stayed alive. The boy was someone who really wanted to thrive, and he ate quite a bit, and so it wasn’t long before he could carry both everything that he could beg and everything that the old man could beg as well. 
     Well, at some point this here old man made sure that the boy was baptized and had him named Hans, because that’s what he was called himself, and so he thought he wanted to have someone named after him, otherwise it would never happen. Finally, when the boy had grown up some, he got him work with a farmer, and he was to take care of the geese. But that didn’t work out because he didn’t treat them gently and he killed most of them. Then he lost his job, and so the old man had him once again. 
     He says to him, “You’re to go up and work for the manor lord, he is quite brusque, and he might go as far as to thrash you.” He goes up to the manor lord with the lad and says such and such, he couldn’t get him work anywhere, “and would you please take him.” Yes, the manor lord was quite happy with him, because nobody would have him, they got chased away as soon as they came; he could do as he pleased with this lad.
He starts work one holiday in the afternoon, and so there wasn’t anything to do then. So he was shown his lodgings, a bed out by the other farmhands, and the next morning when they’ve come in for breakfast, the manor lord comes in to show him his work: he is to go and thresh, because it was at the end of the harvest. 
     He goes out to the barn too, but he couldn’t do anything with his flail, since it was far too small, and he goes in and complains about this. “OK, you can go ahead and make one for yourself,” says the manor lord. Hans stood threshing there in the barn where it was quite high to the roof peak, and so there was lots of space, and so then he goes over to a little house they had, and tears a bunch of roof beams off and begins to thresh the grain with that. After he has threshed for three days, the manor lord felt that the pile was big enough, and then he says: “But how are we going to clean that pile of grain, little Hans?”—“That’ll be my business,” he answered quite arrogantly, “I’ll take care of it.” Then he knocks out all of the walls in the barn and shovels the whole pile up to a point, and he climbs up on top and he blows with his behind down into the pile so that the chaff is blown to all the world’s corners. After that he goes in and says that the grain is done. The manor lord then asks him to carry it up into the attic of the main house. “Sure, but I’ll need some sacks to carry it up in.” Sure, here were some sacks. “Is it little scraps like this that I’m to carry the grain in?” Hans says, and then he goes out and gets a hold of a pair of horse cloths or three and he sews them together, so it becomes a big roomy bag. He fills it with grain and then he puts it on his shoulders and goes off with it. But the door was too narrow, and he rips it out and makes such an opening that he could go in. Then he throws the sack up in the attic and over their nicest rooms, and then it fell through and fell down and ruined all of their furnishings. 
     Now the manor lord got scared of him. “There’s no need to do any more today,” he says, “you can rest until tomorrow. The other farmhands are going to go out to the forest then and cut and drive the winter firewood home, and you can go along with them,” because he thought that that was more about cleverness than strength, and then he’d have other things to think about. The next morning the other farmhands got up in good time, because it was rough roads we had back then, and it was hard to get a load of firewood loaded and driven home by nightfall. Then they say, “We’re not going to call for Hans!” because he always finished his work early, and now they’d decided that he’d be the last one today. So they drove out to the forest, and when it was later in the day, Hans gets up and has his breakfast. He then hitches up the horses and sets off after the others. When he gets to the forest, he says, “Yes, you little guys, you think you’re going to fool me, but it isn’t going to go the way you think,” and then he goes over and pulls up a whole bunch of trees and lays them across the road behind himself. Then he drives quickly, and when he gets a little further in, he meets up with the other farmhands, they had already loaded up and were ready to head home. Then they said to him, “Well, you’ll have to comfort yourself with the fact that the moon is shining, you can certainly find your way home tonight.” But Hans let them mock him, and then he drove off. He got loaded up in a jiffy and headed back. They were still standing there and were toiling away to get these trees off the road, and they couldn’t get around them with their horses. Hans unhitches his horses from the wagon, leads them around, and lets them stand in front of the trees, goes back around for the wagon and its load, and carries them around to the horses, hitches up again and drives home. Now he’d overloaded his wagon and when he drives in the farm gates, the load gets stuck there. But then he thinks, “Now you’ve got it under roof, let it stand there,” he unhitches his horses and goes in and has his dinner. “Oh, are the others coming soon?” says the manor lord. “Yes, it won’t be long,” says Hans. The others had to let their loads and their horses stay outside that night, because there was no other entrance to the farm than through the gate, and it was blocked.
     Hans wanted to stay in bed a little bit longer in the morning, and the next day the people were on their feet early as usual, even though they hadn’t gotten any sleep that night. Then the manor lord says to them, “We need to kill that guy, or he’ll wind up killing us.” They were all in agreement with him, but now the question was how they were going to get rid of him. “We’ll get rid of him easily,” says the manor lord, “because as soon as he gets up, we’ll have him go down and clean the well, and we have an old millstone lying out there, we’ll tumble down on top of him, you know, by accident, and then he’ll be allowed to stay down there.” Well, Hans gets up, and the manor lord says to him, “Listen, Hans, the water has gone wrong in the well, could you go down and clean it out. The other farmhands can help you and pull the mud up.” Sure, there was nothing in the way of doing that. He goes down and begins to dig, and the others haul it up in the bucket. When they’ve just about cleared out the well, they’d gotten the millstone positioned so that they could easily tickle it down on top of him, but they had the misfortune that the stone landed next to him without hitting him. Then he realized that things were wrong and so he grabbed hold of the eye of the stone and put it under his arm and climbed up with it. Then he says to them when he comes up: “The next time you want to hit people in the head, you should take better aim than you did this time.” If they weren’t scared before, they were now.
     “OK,” says the manor lord, “don’t be so annoyed, it happened by accident, someone stepped on it. Could you do me a favor and go to Hell and get me a daler? I’ve heard said that the money that comes from there is supposed to go a long way.” – “Sure, I can do that, but how am I supposed to go about asking directions.” – “You can do that, because all you need to do is ask people you meet where Old Erik lives, they’ll know, because the one who rules Hell is called Old Erik.”
     Well, then Hans gets a knapsack and he sets off on his journey. After he has gone a while and asked many people the way – but of course there was no one who could show him the way – he comes to a really big forest, and he comes to a hermit or one like that, and he asks him as well, if he could tell him where Old Erik lived. “Yes,” he says, “I certainly can, because I’ve shown many people there, but not a one has ever come back. But what do you want there?” Well, then he told him his errand, and he wanted to go there as quickly as possible. “Yes, there’s nothing in the way of that, and I’m going to set a ball rolling, and it will keep going until it gets to the gate, and then it will stop. You’re to follow it, but there are three things that you should watch out for. They’ll ask you to sit down when you get in there, but you mustn’t do that. Then he’ll give you the daler in your hand, but you mustn’t let him do that, you can simply say: Oh, please put it on the floor, it needs to cool down a bit. When it has lain for a bit, then you can take it. And finally, you need to watch out when you leave Hell, that you don’t step on the threshold, you need to do it in one jump, otherwise your feet will be broken. If you can watch out for those three things and get past them well, then I’ll be released (from a curse), and you’ll be saved this time. Go now in the name of God,” says the old man, and then he set the ball rolling, and it started rolling, but it didn’t roll any faster than Hans could follow along walking. It was a very even road he was to walk, and there was nothing to hinder him. 
     After a while, the ball stops in front of a large gate. There was a real slope leading up to it, and it was a big iron gate. Hans started to pound on it, and then someone came and opened it and asked him what he wanted. Yes, he needed to talk to Old Erik. Oh, OK, and then the gate was opened just enough for him to go through and that’s how he got in. “Please come in,” someone says to him. As he goes further along, someone comes up to him, he figured that it was Old Erik. “Good day,” he says, “it is me that they call Old Erik, what is your errand?” – “I am to greet you from the manor lord and ask for a daler.” – “You can have that,” says Old Erik, “but it costs two souls.” – “I don’t care what it costs, because it isn’t me who is to pay.” – “OK, you can sit down, it will be done soon.” But Hans remembered what he’d been told, and he wouldn’t sit. So he stood and looked around, and as far as he could see, the room was so long, there were these devils standing there smithing, he couldn’t figure anything else out. A little while later Old Erik comes and hands him a daler and says, “Here you are,” – “Yes, put it down on the floor a bit, it needs to cool off,” says Hans, “it’s too hot to hold.” After he thought it had lain a while, he took it and put it in his pocket. “Yes, now I’d like the door opened,” he says, “because now I need to go back to someone.” Sure, that was possible, and the gate was opened. Hans took a huge jump out, and the gate was slammed so hard that it echoed. Then he heard someone shout after him: “You don’t have your wisdom from yourself, otherwise we’d have gotten you.” But Hans didn’t worry about that, he kept walking. 
     After he’s gone a little bit, he notices that the ball has started rolling ahead of him again, and it kept going until it came to the hermit’s house. “I should go in there,” says Hans to himself, “and thank him for the good information.” But then he lay there dead. So for his help Hans took him and buried him, since he thought he’d earned it, and after that he went home to the manor farm. When he gets closer to it, the bailiff comes out and sees him and he goes back as fast as he knows how. “Well, now we have Hans again,” he shouts. “What do we have?” says the manor lord, and out of sheer nervousness and fright for Hans he jumps down into the well and dies there. When his wife hears that, she gets ahold of a rope hangs herself. When Hans comes in through the gate, he meets Old Erik, who says: “Yes, now I’m taking what is mine; now you, Hans, can take what’s left. Hans did that too, and in that way he became a manor lord.