Over on Grumstrup Mark in Vedslet parish lies Hede Mill. It was owned in its time by a district bailiff, who was in charge of Hads district. The river is the boundary between the districts, and one had to build one’s house on the Hads district side of the river if one wanted to be in his district, while the mill itself lay in Hjelmslev district. This same district bailiff knew so much about the law that people often sought him out to solve disputes, particularly poor people. At that time, the royal post was driven between Horsens and Aarhus, and it was supposed to go past Vedslet church. Then there was this man at a farm up on Baastrup Mark, which was called Bukballe, and he was going to go to Aarhus one day. So he goes down to the main road, but since the postal carrier comes by at the same time, he asks this postal carrier for a ride. But the postal carrier was a moody fellow, and the two must have had a bit of an argument, enough said, so he drives off, and the other one has to walk behind the wagon all the way to Aarhus. He walks quite quickly, and stays close to the wagon anyway, and so when the guy drives into the farm courtyard, and unhitches the horses, the man comes up, grabs one of the bridles out of his hand, and beats him silly with it in front of witnesses. It was a dangerous thing to do to lay a hand on the Royal Post, and he was of course reported and had to go to court. The least punishment he could get off with was to spend three years at Bremerholm, and he might even have to spend the rest of his life there.
     Now they sought out all of the wise people who knew about the law both in Aarhus and in Horsens, but nobody dared help him. Then there was a man who lived down here in the forest, who was called Jep, he went up to him and said, “Have you gone over to him at Hede Mill and asked his advice?” – “No, I haven’t, because I threatened him last year.” – “Well, I’ll try going over there and see what there is to do about this.” So he went over there. “Well, if it had been anybody else,” he says, “but I don’t think I want to help him, because he showed himself to be not so nice last year.” This man continues and finally he says, “Well, you can come down here tomorrow night, then I’ll let you know.” He left too. “Well, things aren’t too bad,” says the district bailiff, “you can tell the man that I’ll meet up for him next assembly day in Horsens, and he can bring a couple of men with him, if he wants.” So they meet too, and they go into a bar. The district bailiff had two men along himself. “You can eat and drink what you want, we’ll get it paid for.” Then he left, but a little later he came back with the postmaster and the town bailiff. Then he says to the man who’d been charged, “Here are the two men who have charged you, and you can go now, because you’re free.” “Whatever you’ve eaten,” he says to the others, “will be paid for by these two men.” Then that affair was done with. Jep went down to the district bailiff later and said, “How did you manage that? How could you save the man without having to go to court or to the assembly?” – “Well, I pointed out that they’d also broken the law. I had two men hide over by Vedslet church and watch when the post came, and all of a sudden, the day after you’d visited me, there was a royal sign on the wagon. That hadn’t been there before, and so they had to pay for it.” This happened during the time of Frederik the Sixth.