It happened once that a farmhand who was traveling along a road came into a farm somewhere near Kolding. It was on toward nightfall, so he asked for lodgings and he got them. In the meantime, the farmer had a pretty daughter, whom the farmhand decided he wanted, and he made an agreement with her, so he got to sleep with her that night. Once the thing had happened, the girl began to complain, which she had a reason to, but the farmhand comforted her and said, "Oh, don't take it so hard, sure I'm going to leave after breakfast, but if you get pregnant, you can always go up to Koldinghus fort and ask for Hans with the long nose, that's where I usually am." Well, the farmhand said goodbye and went on his way. Three quarters of a year later, the girl gave birth to a big boy, and the parents felt that it was sad that they didn't know anything about the father, but the daughter was cheerful and felt that she'd be able to find him. When she'd gotten better, and the boy had been baptized, she got up early one morning, took her boy in her apron, and went to Koldinghus fort. When she got to the gate and saw the watchmen, she almost died of fright, but when she told them who she wanted to see, they smiled buttery smiles and let her pass.  She went into the courtyard of the fort and there were so many fine people, that she didn't know who to turn to. Finally, a funny little fellow came up to her and wanted to see what she had in her apron. "Ah, ah," he said, laughing, "who is to have that lad?" -- "Hans with the long nose."-- "Oh, has he been there again? The boy sure looks like him. Come with me my girl, we'll find him." She followed him into a large room. The little man asked a guard here if the king was in his room. Now the girl started to get hot around the ears, but before she knew it, she was in a magnificent room in front of a man she immediately thought was the king. "Now Hans," said the court fool, who'd shown the girl the way, "here comes one of your many lovers, and she has a whole apron full of boys with long noses." When the girl had composed herself a bit, she saw that the king was the same man who had slept at their place. When the king had gotten a good look at the girl and the boy, he was willing to take responsibility for them. He gave her a farm to own and to pass down that was right near her home. Later, she got married and according to what is said, the farm is still owned by her descendants.