When a woman is pregnant for the first time and is afraid of the birthing pains, she can escape them whenever she wants. Before the day, she should go where there's a horse skeleton or a horse placenta and set it up. If she crawls through there three times in the name of the Devil, she will never feel any labor pains; but there is a curse that attaches to her first born, the child will be half animal; if it is a boy, he will become a werewolf, but if it is a girl, she will become a mare. These poor little ones look like other children except that their eyebrows grow together over their nose. But they are also born with a hairy spot between their shoulders; and the mother tries to hide it quite conscientiously while the child is young, but when it gets bigger, then she tells it what the spot means and then the child has to be careful not to get undressed in front of others. When the child is fully grown, the curse of the animal comes out; as soon as it gets dark, the unlucky one goes away from other people, and the spot grows bigger until the whole body is covered with hair and it takes on the animal shape. Then there's a werewolf or a mare there, depending on whether it is a man or a woman who is cursed. The werewolf goes out to see if he can find a pregnant woman; if he can and if he can tear the fetus alive from the woman and kill it, then his curse is lifted and he is like other people from then on. When a werewolf goes out, it limps about on three legs, while the fourth sticks out back like a tail. Dogs are always mean to a poor person like that, and always chase him, barking and howling, and since it can only limp on three legs, the dogs have an easy time catching it; it has to try to escape through thick bushes and thorns, where the dogs don't dare go after it. You can always see on a werewolf person when the dogs have been after him, since he has all sorts of scratches on his face. A werewolf can also be released from his unfortunate circumstances if someone, while he is in his normal shape, says to him that he is a werewolf. One doesn't know that much about the shape of a mare, except that it is a little furry creature. The mare most often tries to get in where men are sleeping, but it can also decide to "ride" women. It can only come in through the keyhole or through a hole drilled in the door, the ceiling, the window or some other wood, and so one has to be careful to plug all holes like that if one wants to avoid being ridden by the mare (nightmares). One can also protect against the mare by placing one's clogs with the heels in, because the mare cannot come up unless it can step properly in them first. The riding consists of a very painful pressure on the chest all the way up to the throat, it is just like one is going to be strangled. This feeling comes from the mare sitting on top of the blanket right over one's heart, and even though the mare is little, it is incredibly heavy when it lies on one like that. If one is afraid of the mare, one should get a round hand sieve (såld) and set it up so that it can fall down over the mare and catch it, but one needs to use a rope or whatever one wants to use, so that as soon as the mare lies down, that the sieve can fall just by making a small movement, since once it has lain down, then it is impossible to move even a finger; the only thing one can move during the riding is one's eyes. All of a sudden, before one realizes it, the mare is gone, one doesn't notice it come in, nor that it leaves one's bedroom. If one can get catch a mare in the manner mentioned, it is saved from the curse, since it does not have the strength to throw the sieve aside until it has counted all the holes in the bottom of it; but it cannot do it. When the first rays of the day hit it, it turns into a person immediately, and then it will never be a mare again. It probably is not just a few pregnant women who believe in werewolves, and because of that do not dare go outside when it gets dark.