Many years ago before the new highway was built across Fyn from Middelfart to Bogense, the road went between these two towns north of Båring, through Båring woods along the road from the Kattegat, which stretches in towards town and is called Båring road. The part of the Båring woods that the road went through was called Kragelund and a robber gang had its den here.They had pulled a rope across the road to hear when people traveled by, and they hung bells on the rope near the den which rang as soon as the ropes were touched. Then the robbers jumped out and plundered and killed those people who came by. Once they got a hold of a girl but she was so beautiful that they didn’t have the heart to kill her and they brought her along to their den. She was there for a long time and did the robbers’ work in the den and made like she was quite happy being there. Then one time she asked permission to go home to a baby shower at her sister’s house. The robbers didn’t really want to let her go, but they finally said yes if she promised not to talk to any people about where she was (living), and she promised that too. There was a big party at her sister’s house and when people saw her, they asked her a lot of questions since she had been away so long, but she never said a word. After the meal people went out to take a look around and she also went out. But in one of the stalls there was a support beam, and she went over to it and held it with both her arms and she told it — or rather sang — what she didn’t say to other people: 
“In Båring woods, in Kragelund 
there lie the robbers seventeen 
I’m saying it to neither man nor beast 
but only to this support beam.” 
People listened well to what she said and a little bit later when she went home to the robber den, they gave her a little bag of meal and cut a little hole in the bottom, so when she walked she drew a path with meal right to the robbers’ hideaway. They were taken by surprise and caught all together and then executed.