A minister’s daughter in Borre was secretly engaged with the driver and had gotten pregnant by him. When the minister discovered this relationship, he forced the driver to drive her to Copenhagen. They started off then, were brought over by the ferry from Koster and had gotten a good ways into Sjælland. Then the girl  gets sick and is going to give birth, and so the driver wants to drive into a farm along the road; but the girl’s brother, who was also along, took the reins from him and continued driving despite his sister’s labor screams, and she finally died on the road. Now he had to turn around and start on the road home; but when he and the driver got home, the girl had already been home for a long time, and after that one could see her walking around the parsonage just like when she was alive, until she was finally conjured down in the cellar, and they drove a post through her. A recently deceased old woman told me that, in her youth, she had often seen the post, which was driven into the cellar floor and nobody dared to touch it, so it's likely still there unless people have become more daring since that time. 
     The same woman often told that when she was working as a serving girl at Borre parsonage, the minister had a chaplain with the name Engelsted who could do a lot more than the ministers today, and he also had the black book. One Sunday while the chaplain was in the church saying the service, she went into his room to clean up and she looked a little bit in a book that was lying on the table. When she had first started she couldn’t stop but had to continue reading with increasing interest and zeal. She had not read very long before the chaplain came running in and tore the book away from her and boxed her on the ear and said: “What would you have done if ‘the Old One’ had come!” at which point he began reading in the book, most likely to keep ‘the Old One’ away. But later she found out that the chaplain had stopped, said “Amen,” gotten down off the pulpit and gone home before he was half finished with his sermon, so he must have been able to feel somehow or another that there was something wrong at home.