A person from Copenhagen had driven over to visit the count at Frisenborg. Then he tells him about his driver, that he was so strong that no one could knock him to the ground. Then the count says that there is someone on his manor that he believes could do it. Now they made a big bet about it. Kristen Sø was sent for without delay and he came immediately. The count asked if he wanted to earn his rent today. Well, he didn’t think he could earn it today because he was about seventy rixdollars in arrears. Well, it was like this and that, and if he could lay the driver to the ground, his debt was forgiven but, if not, he had to pay within the month. Well, he’d see what he could do. They go out into the castle courtyard, and they grab hold of one another. It wasn’t cobble stone there, and with the first grasp, the one from Copenhagen gets him down on one knee. But then he stood up and immediately tossed the driver away, just as when you toss a boy. Then he asked him if wanted to try again. No, the driver didn’t want to do that any more. Then the count asks him how it was that he let him force him down on one knee. He’d tell him. He’d gotten into it with a lot of others, but he had never had to use more than half of his strength, and certainly never all of it. But here was the best one he’d encountered in a long time, and so he had to use all of his strength. The count won the bet, and Kristen’s debt was forgiven. The count had a riding horse, they couldn’t shoe it, and so they sent for, you know, this guy Kristen Sø. The count asks him if he can hold the horse up while the smith shod it. Sure, but he couldn’t be responsible if the horse got hurt. That doesn’t matter, said the count, it was paid for, he’d take the loss himself. Well, he holds and the smith shod it, but when he let go, the one thigh had gone out of joint, and the horse could neither kick nor stand. The villeinage folk they had their parties out on the fields, and they were supposed to have a certain number of kegs of beer to drink. They sent a message up and asked if they could have more. Yes, they could have as much as a man could carry. Well, they were pretty smart, so they send Kristen Sø off to get it. He takes a cask under each arm, and a half barrel in each hand, and then they had plenty for their party. Kristen Sø had a couple of cows, and one day he had someone drive his dung out to the fields. This man said that he shouldn’t put too much on the wagon, because his horses couldn’t pull it all out of the dung pool—it was apparently a very deep hole. Well, if there was nothing else to do, he could pull it out himself. And he did that too each time, and the man would harness his horses up at the top of the hole.