
Else Hohus in Rævild had gone down to help a mound dweller man’s wife deliver. The mound dweller man came one evening and greeted her from his wife and asked her if she’d follow him in those affairs. They used this old Else H. a lot for that, because back then there weren’t any trained midwives. Yes, it would be a shame to deny her that, but she wanted to know where she was from. She was from Ørnbjærg, he said, but some new people had come there, and she didn’t know them, he said. Was he from Ørnbjærg. Yes, he was. But how are we going to find our way out there, it was so dark. Yes, they could certainly do that, he said. He’d told them that they could put candles in the windows, and that was good enough. They’d go towards them. Just as they were walking along, they fell down into the earth, and they came in to the mound man’s wife where she was lying. She helped the woman deliver and that went well, but then the man went out. Then she says to the woman: Yes, I’ve come down here, but how am I going to get back? Yes, it would work out, the mound dweller woman was also a changeling. She shouldn’t complain about it, said the woman. He’ll accompany you home, but you should turn one of your mittens around, I can’t remember if it was the right or the left, but either one was equally strong, and then he’ll pay you, you should pick up your apron and hold what he’ll give you in that, and then he’ll dance with you three times around a cranberry bush, she said, and you can grab onto it with your hand when you’re done dancing then you'll be holding onto your door knocker, she said. When he says goodbye, turn the glove around, otherwise he’ll take you back down. Well, then he went off with her when they were done and then he danced with her around the thorn bush and gave her lots of big flint stones in her apron, and she held it up and and then she took hold of the knocker of her door. When he’d said good night to her he couldn’t take her back with him. Then she went inside and tossed the flint stones down in front of the wood stove and then she went to bed. When she woke up in the morning the flint stones had turned into the most beautiful silver coins.