There was a man in Nørre-Harridslev, he did villeinage at Åstrup in west Hjørring and so he was incredibly poor. He lost a huge number of animals, both horses and cows and sheep and pigs and geese and ducks and chickens, in short, everything that he had, and there had to be evil people at play. Now he had four horses, but two of them were so thin and weak that they couldn’t do anything, they hung in some ropes and were near death. Then the man was supposed to go to Løkken with a load of grain for the manor lord and had to have these two horses harnessed up. At the same time, an old Norwegian had come here to the country, he was one who was cunning and could cure such things, and he’d helped many others. Then there were some who’d told him about this farmer and how bad off he was. He goes over there and comes the very evening that the man was supposed to drive to Løkken and wanted to talk to him about that. But since the man wasn’t home, he asks the farmer’s wife if he can’t stay there that night. No, she says no, that couldn’t be done; they were poor people and couldn’t afford to have strangers lodging with them. See, she was harsh and chewed him out; but he just kept sitting there, and people told him to stay until the man came home if he wasn’t there at the moment. Then later that night the man comes back from Løkken and he gave the Norwegian permission to stay there, it was too late to leave now. Now he had a bottle of akvavit along from Løkken and they sat there and emptied it that night and they were feeling good and this here old Norwegian became a little more talkative. Then he says, “How is it that you lose so many cattle and horses?” Well, he couldn’t stay at the farm, he says, he was about ready to leave it any day now, because he lost everything, and it was probably evil people who were at fault. Well, then the Norwegian starts to talk and says, “There’s a remedy for that.”--No, says the man, he’d given a lot of money to have it cured and there’d been a lot of cunning folk, but it didn’t help any. “Well, I’ll stay here tonight,” says the Norwegian, “then we can take a look at it tomorrow morning.” The next morning, they got up and he says to the wife, “Take an entire basket of peat and make a fire in the fireplace.” She agreed to do that. “Well, then we’ll go out to the barn and see if we can’t figure out a remedy for this.” The Norwegian went back and forth in there and then he pointed at a large stone that was lying in the stone floor. They were to pull it up. They did that and no there wasn’t anything under it, they could put it back down. Then he went back and forth a couple of times, and then he says, “It should be here.” There was also a stone in there which he now pointed at. They got a metal bar and lifted the stone, and underneath it there was a hole big enough to fit a couple bushels. There were also all sorts of bones, both horses and cows and pigs and the like, and there was hair from them too, and there were bones and feathers of chickens and ducks and geese. Tied onto these hairs were so many bad luck knots that the cunning man filled a two bushel basket when he’d gathered it all together and carried it out. He calculated that it could have lasted for another hundred years before it would have ended, that’s how long they would have lost animals there. They carried it into the kitchen and then they had to shut all the doors and windows tightly and plug all the holes in the main room, because now everything that was in the basket was thrown onto the fire, and the evil-doer would come immediately. It wasn’t too long either before their neighbor’s wife came and really wanted to come in, and she yelled and screamed, she really needed to talk to them. But she wasn’t allowed to because the Norwegian was afraid that it wouldn’t help if she came in, and so she wasn’t allowed in. After that filth had been burned to ashes, they carried it and the bone stumps out to the dunghill and after that they never lost a thing. He became a clever man and his grandchildren have the farm to this very day. The one who told me this knew the man personally.