There were two sisters who lived here in Oplev, one was rich and the other was poor. They lived in Jens Markussen’s and Anders Jensen’s farm, the two southern farms. The rich one was the oldest and the poor one was a such a pretty young woman. When they plowed, they had nobody to drive the plow other than a little girl since at that time they used the old wheel plows with four in front. When they were going to harrow, the wife had to go herself with the nags, since they didn’t have a girl there except when they plowed. When they were utterly exhausted, she would have to go home and feed the cattle. This Jewish wandering merchant came one day to the poor sister when she’d come back from the fields and he showed her his wares and wanted to do business with her. She said that she wasn’t going to buy anything since she didn’t have any money. But he said that she should look around in the old chest with the iron bands which stood in there, she probably find some money there. No, she knew that there wasn’t any. Well, he showed her one nice piece of clothing after another, as traveling merchants are wont to do. Yes, she really wanted them, but that didn’t really help matters. Then he gets her to try something on: here’s a piece of clothing that he’d give to her, if he could lie with her for a little while. These Jewish wandering merchants liked to do that too. She didn’t dare do that, since when her husband saw that she had the clothing, then he’d want to know where she’d gotten it from, since he knew that she didn’t have any money. Then he takes his wallet up with all of these silver coins in it and tosses a shilling to her, she could have it and her husband wouldn’t need to know. When the woman saw that he had so many silver coins she looked at the sun and said, “No, its noon now and my husband will come home. But I have another idea. Tonight he is going to the mill and get grain for the nags, then you should come and ask for shelter, and it will probably work out.” He liked this suggestion. She talks to her husband about this and tells him that it would be good to get a hold of the money. “Now you should stand out in the entry and greet him, and then you should get ready like you were going to the mill.” Well, then the wandering merchant came and wanted shelter there. No, their apartment wasn’t large enough to give people shelter there. Sure, they had enough room, he knew the place well. But they didn’t have anything to put on the bed, no he’d better go to the inn – there was an inn in Gravlev at that time. No, he couldn’t do that, since he had to head west the next morning. Well, then the husband finally let the wife take care of it. She was also hard to convince, but he was finally given permission. Then the husband puts on his long jacket, puts a sack under his arm and grabs a staff and asks his wife to feed the nags one more time, and then she was going to make some evening snacks for the wandering merchant. But it took a while and they weren’t done before the husband came home. The wandering merchant still had just gotten into bed, and now the husband grabs hold of the poor merchant. The wife she wailed that he shouldn’t beat him like that. Well, he’d been standing outside and heard what he’d talked about to his wife and now he was going to kill them both. She runs at him to fight with him and the merchant grabs his clothes and runs out the door, which the man had opened. The husband ran after him and chases him down to the little woods in Gravlev. So he escaped with his life, but he’d lost his money and his box of wares too, and he didn’t dare go back to get it.