There was a beggar king (beggar bailiff) in Nielstrup, and my father, who was in service at Stubdrup, wanted to play a trick on him once. “I’ll put on some old clothes,” he thought, “and pass myself off as a vagabond.” Now when the beggar bailiff came over the hill, he’d arranged it so that he could just make it into the farm where he served in Stubdrup, and then when the beggar bailiff got there, he says, “Was there a beggar just here?” – “Yes,” says the farm wife, “he ran off to Drostrup as fast as he could.” So then he ran over to the Drostrup farms and asked about him. “Yes,” they said, “he just went over to the other farm.” OK, so he went over there. “Yes,” said the farm wife, “he just left for Hallendrup.” Then the beggar bailiff ran off after him again, until he was wheezing. My father was still ahead of him, and so he ran back to Stubdrup and in to the other farm. The farm wife had made a wonderful soup for lunch. The vagabond says hello. The farm wife recognized my father immediately, and she says, “Oh sit down and have a spoonful of soup.” So he sat down and then the beggar bailiff arrived. “Oh, here you are you bastard. Let the devil chase you out of here.” – “No, sit down Rasmus,” says the farm wife, “and spoon up a spoonful of soup with him and figure this out.” The first spoonful that the beggar bailiff took, the other vagabond reached out and took the chunk from him, and he took it from his spoon like that several times. Then he thought, “Well, if I can’t have any soup, then I can take a piece of meat.” But my father took that too. Then the beggar bailiff got angry and grabbed my father by the scruff of the neck, he was going to throw him out. But when they got to the door, my father fell down in the foyer, and the beggar bailiff fell down on top of him. Then he began to shout that the beggar bailiff was going to kill him. “Oh God,” said the farm wife, “let him go Rasmus.” Finally he got up and then he ran over to the other farm and took his clothes off, and then he wasn’t a vagabond anymore. The beggar bailiff never found out who it was.