Once upon a time, there was a man who had so many children. When the oldest one had gotten fairly big, he decided he wanted to go out and find a job. As he is walking along, he meets a person who is riding by. “What are you out after, little boy?” he says. “I’m going out to find a job.” – “Won’t you work for me?” – “Sure, I can just as well work for you as for someone else,” says the boy. “Can you read?” – “Yes, I can. We have a lot of children, but my father made sure on that account, we all had to learn our learning.” – “Well, then I can’t use you, I need a boy who can’t read,” and he rode on. But the boy now wanted the job, and so he ran around and turned his clothes inside out, and he ran over so that he met up with the man again. Now the same thing happens again. The man asks if he wants to work for him, and whether he can read. “No, I certainly cannot,” says the boy. “Well, then I can use you. Now you can get up here on back, and then come along with me.” Then he got up to ride. When they got home, he says: “Here is a room with a lot of books, you are to keep them clean and do nothing else.” The boy went there among the books every day and read them. He learned a lot from them, and there was instruction in how to do magic and turn oneself into whatever one wanted. They called the man that he worked for the Black Magician. He often traveled, and then he would say to the boy: “Make sure that you take care of the books and keep then nice and clean.” Now the boy knew that his father needed money, and then he heard that there was to be a market nearby. Now he thought that he’d learned quite a bit, and so he goes home to his father and says: “Now I’m going to turn myself into a horse and you’re to bring that horse to market and sell it, and you can get a lot of money for it. But you have to remember, you are not to sell me with the halter on, you have to remember to take it off and keep it.” The father promised that, and then he took him to the market. The Black Magician was there too, and he recognized the horse and wanted to buy it from the man. There were many others who wanted to buy that horse, since it was so beautiful, but the Black Magician bid the most. The man wouldn’t sell the halter with it, and the stranger absolutely wanted to have the halter. Finally, he bid so much that the man didn’t feel he could let him walk away, but if he couldn’t have the halter, then he didn’t want it. Then the boy’s father made a decision, and the Black Magician got the horse and led it home with him. Now he forbid his people from taking the halter off. Every day that it was led outside to be watered, it scraped and scraped at its nose and absolutely wanted the halter off. Now the magician had lots of children, and one day one of them came out there and saw that and he said: “Oh, let’s take the halter off of him, he can’t really drink with the halter on.” They take it off, but as soon as they’ve done that, the horse turned itself into a bird and flew off. Then the magician comes in the door at that moment and he sees what has happened, and he turns himself into a hawk and flies off after the bird. It got close to a princess’s window, and when she sees the little bird and how the hawk was chasing it, she opens her window and the bird flew in, but the hawk had to stay outside. The bird changed itself into a young man and said to the princess that he was now going to turn himself into a gold ring, that she could put on her finger, and a traveling salesman (horse trader) would come who wanted to buy the ring, and she could sell it to him, but she was to let it drop onto the table first. A few days later a traveling salesman came and asked the princess if she wanted to sell the gold ring that she had on her finger. Sure, that would be good, and they agreed on the price. Then she took it off her finger and let it drop down on the plate. Then he turned himself into a barley corn, and the magician turned himself into a rooster, because it was no other than he who had pretended to be a horse trader. The rooster wanted to take the barley corn, but then the boy turned himself into a fox and bit the head off of the rooster. Then that was the end for the magician, and the boy stayed with the princess and when he got older, he married her, and they lived happily together the rest of their lives.