The fair copy to Æv 1515 is missing. The manuscript version of this tale reads:

There was a man, he was so poor. And he was a fisherman, and one day he caught a big fish in his net. "Oh, let me go today, tomorrow you'll catch so many fish in your net." Then the next day, the same fish was in the net. Yes, now you can take me, and give my heart to your wife and my kidneys to your dog, my lungs to your nag and then bury my tongue in your garden and also my liver. Then the wife gives birth to two children, the dog two puppies, the nag two foals, and in the garden two bottles, and then when your children set out in the world, when they are in danger, then the bottle will be red, and two swords will grow, and they have that quality that whatever you show the edge of the sword to dies. And that happened too. The oldest son set off and wanted to try his luck. Came to a market town and there was a king there who had a daughter, and they were flying black flags and everyone was so sad. It seems so sad here in the town, what is going on. Well, it was the princess. The king had given her to a dragon that had helped him in a war. Oh, he said. Now it was going to come and get her today. Finished up, got up on his horse, grabs his sword by his side and rides out to her. What are you sitting here for. Couldn't he save her. No, probably not, since the dragon was coming to get her. Wanted to try anyway. The carriage driver's name was the Red Knight, he'd climbed up into a tree, and was scared. And now the dragon came, whistling and roaring, it had three heads. He sat down next to her and she sat and fixed his hair. Who is that sitting in my sweetheart's lap? It was mine before it was yours. Well, let's fight over it. Then the dog and the horse attacked him. Took the tongues, hid them in his pocket. Rode away. She'd bound her gold ring in his hair. Second day, met at the same spot. One with six heads. Same way. Third day. Nine heads. He got rid of all three of them. She promised she'd have him and wait a year for her. Now he wanted to travel for a year and then come back again. The red knight had taken all the heads. He'd saved her, otherwise he'd kill her. Said that. Well, then she was to have him. Asked for a year to mourn, since she'd had that great sorrow. When the year was up, she was to have the Red Knight. Came riding to the same inn. Flags were flying and everything looked so nice. Asked why that was. That was because the princess was to have a big celebration (wedding) today. He sat there with the innkeeper. A piece of the roast. Oh good lord. Tied a note around the dog's neck... roll up a small napkin and they tie the roast in that. Would be fun to have a piece of cake. Well, now he'd see if that was possible. Went off. Good enough with a piece of cake. The Red Knight angry. He didn't want those dog tricks. Yes, well she wanted to say that it was that dog's master who'd saved her. Went up and got him. He was riding down there ... Well, that's a lie... The one who'd been there first had probably taken the tongues out of the heads. The Red Knight was rolled to death in a spiked barrel and the other one got the princess. The first night, he says, what is that light shining out there. An evil old woman, she's probably a witch. Wanted to see her. Oh, no, he really shouldn't. Yes, thought he'd ride out there. Tied up his horse. Went in. Good evening, he said. Thank you, please come in, little Son, she said. Oh, I'm so scared of that dog. Won't you take a hair from my head and put in on the dog's nose. Sure. Oh ... horse. Hair, nose. Pulled a clump of hair out her head, and put it on the horse's nose. Did you do it, little son. Yes. Hair become iron and iron hold tight. Then they were bound in iron chains, both the dog and the horse. She killed him too and tossed him in to all of the other dead bodies she had. She had a lot. Now at home they saw that the bottle turned red. Then the other brother left to save his brother. Came to the same inn. As soon as he came in, they began to call him Prince, and he rode down to the castle. She came and greeted him warmly and asked if he'd returned. She was so friendly to him, didn't know that he wasn't her husband. When they were to go to bed, he took his sword and placed it between them. Why did he do that tonight. Yes, well he wanted to use that custom tonight. When they got into bed, he said, what is that light shining out there so clearly. But I told you that last night. Yes, that's right, I didn't remember that, I think I'll go out there again tonight. Wondered if he'd been killed out there. Rode out there. Recognized his brother's horse and dog. Knew that it was there. Went in to the old hag, too. Good evening, little son. Thank you, good evening, Mutter. I'm so scared of your dog. Would you.... He pulled a clump of hair from her head and threw it on the fire. What's crackling. Oh it is lice and shit from her old sow. Would he ... horse. Yes, he did that too... What was it that crackled. Have you done it. Yes. Hair become iron and iron hold tight. But nothing held tight. Pus, he said and then the horse and dog attacked the hag. You need to bring my brother and his ... back to life, otherwise we'll kill you. Yes, I'll do that little son. And she went in and rooted about among the dead bodies and she found him, had a pot with some salve in it and she smeared it on him and he came back to life. He forced her to release the horse and the dog, and then they killed the hag, and then they brought the salve back home. On the way home, the one said to the other, I lay with your wife last night. Did you lie with my wife last night, and then he became furious and killed him on the road and threw him out into the forest. When they were going to bed, How could it be that you lay your sword between us last night. Oh, that was just something I'd thought up last night. Then he got up and took the pot with him and went out and smeared him back to life. You know, I realize it is a complete lie what I'm sitting here telling. I'd like to have a pot like that too. Then they rode up to the princess, but then she didn't know, which one was her husband. But then she stayed with the one who was her husband, and the other one rode home.