Æv 1459 is missing from the fair copy collection. The unpublished version reads: 
There was a minister who gave the most delightful sermons. Then there was a woman, who was so pretty and she liked to listen to him so much and went to church every Sunday and he wanted her just as much. He wanted so often to chat with her. It happened one Sunday that he got to talking with her and he wanted to know where she lived. He preferred to visit her when her husband wasn't home. She said he wouldn't be home on Saturday, he had to go to Copenhagen. So the minister came to visit her then. Believed that her husband wouldn't come home during the night, so the minister stayed there that night. But then it happened that her husband came home anyway. And they were about to go to bed together and the minister was getting undressed. Then her husband came driving in. Where should I hide? Well, out into their hired girl's room, since she wasn't home. She let him in there and when her husband came in, he asked if they'd gotten ready to brew tomorrow. No they weren't prepared because they hadn't milled any malt or anything else. Well, then go out and mill the malt, she and the hired girl could certainly do that that evening. She didn't dare say that she'd given the hired girl the night off. The husband goes out to the girl's room and says that she has to get up and help mill malt, and it was dark. The minister wakes up and puts on the girl's clothes. Then he got up and went and helped the wife mill malt. Then he went back into the girl's room, he was supposed to be the girl. Then the night wore on and he decided that he'd better get home. Now the wife goes to church the next day again. That's a terrible husband you have, is he always like that to you, if so then I really feel for you. Can't you say for certain when he is going to be away again. Then she wrote to the minister that it was certain that he would be away the next Saturday, quite far away. Then the minister came again and visited the woman. Got food and drink and was well taken care of, and well into the night they got ready to go to bed together, they figured that he wouldn't be coming back again. Took off their clothes, and he came driving into the farmyard again, just like the first time didn't know any place for him to hide other than a nook in the hen house, she didn't think he'd go there, otherwise he tended to look in all the nooks. And the husband came in and she asked if he wanted something for dinner and he said he wanted roast chicken. Could not go out to the hen house tonight. That was strange. Well, he wanted that, and so he went out to the hen house. When he opened the door, the minister came running out, but he didn't know who it was. Came in and said he had no idea what kind of spectacle there was out there in the hen house, but he couldn't get any hens. The third Sunday, comes once more to church. That's quite a frightened husband you have. Yes, he's always like that, you can't count on him. But now next Saturday, he is definitely going to be gone, so we can talk about everything then. Minister again. Were done and had food and drink to bed. All the clothes off and were about to go to bed and the husband came driving home again. Had no idea what to do. But there was a big feather barrel sitting right there, and she put the lid on a bit. When the husband came in. So, how are you, have you gotten those feathers together. I need to go off again tomorrow, out with the two feather barrels and have them nailed shut tonight. He came in and nailed the barrels shut and had them brought out onto the dung heap since they had to be ready to be loaded up the next day. So he loaded them like that so that he could just get to the church, because he knew quite well what was in the barrel, he and his wife had talked about it with each other. Came right to the church and people were there. Knocked the barrel off and it broke open. And the church folk got scared, they thought that it was the Devil who came out of the barrel. But the minister hurried up and went in and got into other clothes and came and held his sermon. The next Sunday, the husband wanted to go to church too, hadn't been there for quite a while, wanted to go in the minister's clothes, they were lying out there. The minister quite recognized the husband. He had no idea how he was going to get away with it, was probably going to say something about it in the sermon how it had come about. He mentioned that he had gone to a place where they had undressed him and kept his clothes, but now he hoped that it was a gift to both the husband and wife, that they could be more in agreement. He could see that they accompanied each other to church. Since then the wife could go to see the minister, and since then the man accompanied his wife to church.