There was a woman in Skjødstrup, she was called Puust-Maren and she could witch and she could do so much magic. The man at Vosnæsgård had asked about that, and one day she comes down to him and stood and talked with him, he days, “Listen, Maren, is it true that you know a lot of magic and can witch.” Maren: Yes, it was. “If you can get all of my plows to stop at once, then I’ll believe it.” All of his people were out in the fields plowing. Sure, that was an easy matter for her, she could stop all of them except for one, he knew a lot of magic himself, that farmhand, because as long as he was in the furrow, she couldn’t do it, as soon as he got out of it, then she could. But she couldn’t do it in any other way than to make the horses stampede, and the manor lord had to promise not to regret that or get angry about that. No, he wouldn’t. Then all of the plows except one stopped. Something broke on all of the farmhands’ plows, some broke in the blade, some in the long iron, and for some the harnesses broke. But when the one farmhand, who was still plowing, came out at the end, the horses got so wild, and they smashed the plow and they ran off across several fields and damaged the horses and everything. “Now I believe that you can,” says the manor lord, “since you’ve done it. That was bad enough, but you won’t be punished for it. But if you do it to others, then you won’t be able to avoid being accused [of witchcraft]. I’ve heard how you even made your own daughter wing-mouthed because she wanted Per Virring.” Yes, that’s was true enough.
     One time she’d also made a woman so sick and then another woman from Århus had to cure her because she was a bit wiser than Maren. But then the sick woman’s husband was supposed to stand when Maren came--because she would come--and hit her in the forehead with a wooden club [nødde], otherwise the one from Århus couldn’t cure her. “But I’ll probably kill her.” No, they couldn’t kill her, it wouldn’t even hurt. Then the man was so afraid that she’d sneak in the door past him, but then the woman from Århus said that she’d put a birch broom [ruflime] or a broom [sliklime] in the door, she knew that she couldn’t go over that. Now when the cunning woman was reading and curing the sick one, then Maren came and was so angry that she was dangerous. The man was ready with the club and hit her as hard as he could. Maren couldn't to do anything then and had to go home. “I wouldn’t have thought that there was such magic here,” she said, “because then you could have let me known, and I could have cured her as well. But if I can’t do anything else now, well then she’ll be wing-mouthed just like my daughter.”
