There is a manor farm here to the east a bit, they call it Stadsgård, and ghosts haunted there in the old days. It was the earlier owner who went again because he had been so barbaric toward his peasants. He went in the shape of a monster with horns and bustled about a lot in the main room. Nobody dared to be at the farm at night because of him. So they gathered the ministers together--there were twelve altogether--one night at midnight. They came in the evening and they were also waited on before they were to go to it. Then at twilight, a beggar came, he was otherwise known as Klemmen Unborn because he had been cut out of his mother’s side, and he asked for lodgings for the night. But they said no. First of all, they didn’t have a reasonable room to give him, and second of all, he couldn’t very well be there when everyone else was going to flee from there, and nobody other than these twelve chaps were going to be there, how was he going to handle himself? “Yes,” he says to them, “just let me stay, who knows, you might find my help useful in a bit.” -- “Sure,” says one of the people, “if you aren’t any more afraid that you offer to help them, well then there’s a bed here in the hall next to the main room, why don’t you go and lay down there?” So he went in there. Up toward midnight, these twelve ministers arrange themselves in a circle in the main room, each one with a psalm book or whatever in their hands, and they open them up and begin to make quite a ruckus with songs and prayers and what have you. Then when the clock struck, the door burst open and in comes this monster and for every nod it made toward a minister, his psalm book flew out of his hands. Then he says, Klemmen, he did: “Now it’s my turn, I guess.” So he went in there and there was nobody who could understand what he said, but the animal stood still and so he went over and bound a red thread around its horns. Then he pulled it out to the south-east corner of the farm where there was a large linden tree in those days, and he tied it (the monster) to it (the tree) until the next day when he conjured it down. After that, he didn’t have to ask to get lodgings at that farm.