There was a couple of wanderers who lived once up in Ry forest. They had their hang-out in the saw pits. It was Kyvling-Søren and one they called Jens Knop. They were in the habit of stealing from the rich and giving to the poor. But they were hard. They chopped the breasts off of women and stabbed children to death with their knives. But then it got to be a bit too much, and the peasants got together and hunted them down at their own risk and cost. They shot Jens Knop but they couldn’t find Kyvling-Søren. They had chased him over Ry bridge, but then he jumped into the river and they hadn’t seen him since. They didn’t believe he’d drowned since he was a good swimmer, and so now they’d simply lost trace of him. So now they went along the riverside to make sure that he didn’t slip up into the woods again. As they lay there along the edge of the lake and talked about him, one of the millers comes over to them. Now as they’re lying there looking out over the lake, he says, ”That tuft of grass wasn’t there last night.” So one of the men grabs his rifle and shoots at the tuft of grass. And he hits him in the thick part of the arm, because he had his hand up and was holding this tuft of grass up over his head. They got hold of him and he was sent to the stockade over in Copenhagen. He was supposed to start off by getting twenty-seven lashes, him and one other guy. The other one was first, but he didn’t handle it well at all. Then Søren says, “If you give in after so little, then you’ve got to be kind of soft.” It was Søren’s turn next. His knees were bound to the stockade first and then his hands were bound to them. Now his back was stretched and he got whipped with nine separate whips that had been soaked in brine, and he got three lashes with each one. The last three whips the Master could run his fingers down and the blood came pissing out of them. But they didn’t hear a word from him. Then he was in the stock house for twenty-seven years, and he got out when he was an old man. He couldn’t do anything at that point, and he earned his keep by going around and singing and playing music for people. Among other things, he played a piece he called Kyvling-Søren’s piece, which is still played today occasionally.
     The last time that they caught him, they held him. But he’d been arrested a lot before and sat in jail. But they never could keep him an entire night and that was because he had a contraption, shaped like a dagger, and it could be used as a saw on its one side, and a file on the other. He had it in a holster and he hid it in his bowels. With it he could saw the thickest iron bars like when we cut wood. But the last time they took it from him.