Once while Kro-Niels in Tveden was still a little boy, he was supposed to lead a horse to Nibe that his father had sold to man up from Gjøl and he was to have five daler for it. He gets to Nibe, but it is almost night before the man comes to receive the horse. Then it got dark and he didn’t dare go home and so he wandered about a bit. Now he didn’t know where he was going to spend the night and he comes back to the same place again where he was supposed to deliver the horse, it was a pub, and their back door was open. It led out to the garden. He goes in through the door and up some stairs. There were lots of apples up there in the attic and he wanted some because he had gotten sort of hungry, and so he started eating as much as he could. After a while, he starts to get a little picky and so he started feeling around for the softest and best ones. It turned out that this was directly over the man and woman’s bed, she had already gone to bed but the man hadn’t yet, since the customers hadn’t left yet. The woman hears a scratching up in the attic and she says to her husband that there were probably thieves up there. He lights a lamp and gets someone to come along with him up there. They find Kro-Niels in the apples and drag him down with them to the main room. They should do something to him for doing that. They discuss taking the money for the horse from him. “No, that would be a shame,” says the woman, “then his father would break his back when he comes home. Can’t we figure out something else to do to him?” Sure, the man came up with something, they had a fox cage out in the back yard, they’d put him in there until the morning. They get him in there and close it. Well, later that night the fox came and ran about and sniffed the fox cage and he could smell something. Now, there were bars on one end and Niels reaches out his arm there and gets a hold of the fox’s tail. It runs off with him and he continues to hold on. After a while, the cage broke apart, and he got out. But he was totally lost and had no idea where he was. While he stood there and looked around, he realized that he was on top of Rævild Kold, and he could see his house from there. So he walks on home with the money for his father and the trip had turned out pretty well after all.