There was a minister over in Angel, he had a Cyprianus. Then a boy came and was to be instructed by him, and he was called Jakob. One day the minister sat and read, and the boy sneaked up behind him and read behind him in the book. Then the minister asked if he wanted to learn what was written there. Yes, he wanted to. Then he taught him that it was in fact from the Cyprianus. One day when the minister was in the church, he started in on it himself and started to read on his own. Then an owl came into the room and soon after another and then more, and they flew about in the room. He continued to read and then a toad came hopping into the room, then another and finally there was a whole flock. When they were gone and he continued reading, grass snakes came in and that also turned into a huge mass of snakes. In the meantime, the minister stood at the pulpit, but then he noticed that an owl came flying by with regularity outside. He realized that there must be something wrong happening at home and he hurried as best he could to get home and came home into the study, just as the whole flock of grass snakes came slithering in. The boy had, out of fright, put the book down and didn’t know what he should do with himself. The minister saw immediately what was going on and started to read back so they were driven away once more. The minister said now that he should thank God that he came early because if the snakes had disappeared then the troll himself would have come and then there would have been no help for him. Now he would teach him how one should go about reading them away. 
      The boy continued to live with the minister and got the book after him, but I can’t remember if he used it. 
      When Jakob got old, he could get the Devil to show himself whenever he wanted to see him. One day his son asked if he couldn’t see him. Then they were out one day standing by a road and digging and then Jakob says to him that he should watch out because this afternoon the Devil would come by. Then different people came and walked by and finally a high class gentleman came by. Just when he had passed, the old one said: “Did you see him?” “Well, who?” “Him, the one you wanted to see.” “Well, where is he?” “Didn’t you see, he walked past here.” Then he turned around quickly, but then there was nobody to see.