There was a knight who came to a lonely place. I think that he’d been in league with some people there in the forest and had fled from them. Then he wanted to go in there and hide and stay there the night. Then he sees an old hag who is standing there with a young woman and is putting a necklace on her neck and she said that she had a pain in her neck. It hurt in the front and it hurt in the back and it was a horrible pain she had. This young woman was then to come and serve him and she wrote on the table, look out for me, I’m going to come again, and she served him with wine that had a sleeping potion in it but she threw it down onto the ground and then she said: That’s right, my lord, drink it all, we have more. It pleased her, that he would drink so much. Everything so that the hag wouldn’t notice anything. She gave him a note explaining how everything was to go. Then he settled down and he put a dead body in the bed. Then when they’d come home, the old hag was to light a light for them. Then the master of the fort who’d opened up for him, came and he was to stab him to death, but then the knight was standing behind the door with his sword drawn. When they came home, they’d taken a maiden in the forest, they had gotten a hold of her and she was his sweetheart, and then they’d eaten and gotten so drunk that it was frightening. The old hag’s son had always had the first girl as a night friend, but now he wanted to have the new one instead. He bet 1000 devils with each one over who was to have her, the one felt he had more right to her than the next. The first girl sneaked out with a light and was going to check to see if he was asleep and she came back and said that he was sleeping now. So the fort master was to go and stab him to death. He went in there and shoved his dagger into him. That was well placed, said the old hag, it made such a deep "oh" sound. Then the knight came out and chopped off the head first of the fort master and then the hag but he didn’t harm the girl. Then she ran in to the strongest of the men and said that he should go in and talk to the master and he came and stuck his head in the door and said some drivel, while the knight lashed out and his last words rolled across the floor. There was one named Daniel, and she asked for him. She had often seen him sitting crying in a corner with his wine because he had to be a robber. He was so strong. Then she called to him, he should come. When he came he put the sword right up to his chest, but didn’t harm him. He said that now the holy woman [saved him] had kept her word, because he’d dreamed that a holy woman had saved him from this prison. Then he took a chair and broke the back off of it and went with that and killed all of the them, because they were all so drunk. When he’d killed the fort master and the hag, he had gone to a place where the lord was, and he heard from inside there a hoarse woman’s voice say: Yes, you have my life but you will never get my honor. Then he knocked down the door and went in and killed him. They were all killed all except for this Daniel. He put him in charge of it (the fort). The maiden got married, he got her one of the court’s knights to be her husband.

Still in Aarestrup they say brii for vride, bre for vred, and also brej for vred (at vride--to twist)