Speitzer was really bad about beating his tenants. Then one day he’d beaten a big boy. He was the brother of Kræn Gatten. Kræn Hornum from Vester-Hornum said that he saw it. The next day, when Kræn Gatten was at the farm doing his villeinage, and they’d harvested and they were raking, he stayed back a little bit, so that Speitzer would come over to him. It was down in a little depression. Then Speitzer comes over and says, “Listen, Kræsten, can you give me a light?” – “The Devil should take you, what did you do to my brother yesterday?” He began to lash out at him with his staff and said, “Yeah, you can get some too, good buddy.” Then Kristen jumped on him but he couldn’t knock him over, since he was a fat, strong beast this here Speitzer. At that moment, Per Skytte arrives. Then Kræn Gatten says, “If you’re a brave guy, then you’ll help me.” – “No, help me,” said Speitzer, “then I’ll give you my manor farm.” – “OK, I’ll help you,” says Per Skytte. Speitzer’s hat had come off, and he was bald, and Per smashed his rake down on his head, so that blood poured out of him, and then they knocked him out cold and stood on either side of him and kicked him on both sides and broke all of his ribs. Now they thought that he was dead when he stopped moving and then they ran off. But at the same time he lifted his head. “Haven’t you had enough yet?” they said, “you’ll get some more,” and so they took a stone and put his right hand on it and took another stone and smashed his hand with it. After that they each took a horse and rode off. 
    Then scouts were sent out to find them. They also came close to them, they came to a place where one of them was. It was probably Skytten. Then they put him into a closet. They had a little baby, who was on the floor, and when the scouts came in there to search, the little child goes and says, “Man in the cave, man in the cave,” but they didn’t really understand and the mother took the child and got it out of the way, so they didn’t find him. The fugitives went up to Holsten and got away that way. They say that Skytten later wound up living on Funen.
     But now it's Speitzer that we were supposed to hear about. The minister came to him, or maybe they send someone to get him, and he said, “I’ve told you before Speitzer. If you’ve got anything on your conscience, tell me, because you’ll probably not survive.” – “No, I’ll confess only to my God in Heaven, and not to you.” He got better but his right hand was never healthy again. He’d lost his right hand, they said, but he’d deserved Hell. Then he said goodbye to the farm and traveled off to some place else. The Madam wanted so badly for him to die, but it didn’t happen. When he called for her, or for the mistress and they didn’t come, then he’d finally have to call for the cleaning woman whom he’d have sex with, and if nobody else would come, she would.
     Kirsten Hornum said that blood poured out of him over more than half a field when he was carried home. 
     One time, all of the servants had gone off to sleep, because they didn’t think he’d come. But then he was upon them before they knew it, and he didn’t say anything to them, he just began to lash them, and he continued to do so until they’d all gotten some. Then one of them said, “Usually the lightning comes before the thunder, but this time the thunder came before the lightning.”