The old people said that there’s no worse tormentor of peasants than the son of a peasant. The district judge Knud Tejl from Torstedlund was also a terrible beast to the peasants, and he was himself from Tejlhus down there near Skjörping field. He was at the same time the foreman over there in Torstedlund and he also had an office over in Årestrup. He had a brother who lived at home there in Skjörping, and he once had come to visit him. They put out a chair for him, but when he got up again, the madame said to the daughter that she should take a brush and brush off the chair, because she thought that he looked so slovenly, and then when he left she had the daughter run out with an eight shilling coin to give to him. He said no thanks, he wasn’t a beggar. Yeah, that was nice treatment to get in your own brother’s house.
     A farmer from Oplev, he was called Lars Jensen, went down to Torstedlund to borrow a barrel of oats. But then the district judge beat him so badly that blood flowed down his arm. Then they threw him into a chicken coop and he lay down there for quite a while until they drove him to Ålborg and he was put into the army for eight years. His wife and children went to Årestrup to seek shelter, and then she went about begging. She had to do that. Her husband came home once in his uniform to visit his family, and they also went to church. He met the district judge there, but he wouldn’t greet him.
     When Knud Tejl was no longer to be the district judge, he went to Hjedsbæk, but he had some really long days there, because he took ill and lay in bed for quite a while. He finally hung himself with his bedsheets. His daughter, who came in and saw him hanging there was really shaken up by that.
     I can tell another story from the time of that district judge. Two men were out walking near a little stone wall near a stream in the woods. Then one of them says, “What’s this lying here?” The other one says, “Well its probably some droppings from a cow." "No, it isn’t.” He pushed it aside a bit with his staff, and there was a child inside it. “What should we say about that girl who is lying sick (pregnant) up there in Skårup?” They could do nothing other than report this and then the girl was brought to the court in Årestrup. She was so sick when they drove off with her that she couldn’t take the wagon moving beneath her, and the coachman had quite a time getting out there in time. Then Tejl sentenced her to death and then he supposedly said, “We’ve now judged her head from her body, and if the king wants to put it back on, then he can.”