When a beggar had gone through a town and gotten alms, then the townsfolk were supposed to drive him to the nearest town, and the one who had the “poor board" had to do that. It was a seat plank on which had been counted a number of loads. Each town had their own plank and when a man had driven he’d give the plank to his neighbor. If a beggar died on his wanderings, his burial had to be paid for by the town in which he died. There was an old tailor from Rold who died at our neighbor’s, he was the brother of the parish bailiff in Rold, that tailor. Hjorde-Jens, the guy whose house he’d died at, got his neighbor on the other side, Old Per, to help him carry the tailor out and they placed him up next to a stone wall, tied his bag on, and a staff in his hand. The place lay fairly high and so it was easy to see him. This happened early in the morning before daylight and when it became daylight, Hjorde-Jens came out and found him – at least it was supposed to appear that way – and he went to the alderman, they called him Truukræn, and told him about the Rold tailor, how it was. “Well,” he says, “that’s really bad.” He told his farmhand that he should harness the two gray horses to the dung wagon and drive off and get him. Then they drove him over to Rold and into the parish bailiff’s farm. “I’ve brought your brother,” said Truukræn, “he’s dead.” Well, then they could take him back with them, and bury him. But then Truukræn jumped off the wagon and took hold of the one dung board and Byrri-Niels, who was with him, took hold of the other, and then they dumped the tailor out of the wagon with his bag, and his basket and his things, so that he fell down onto the ground, and then they jumped back up into the wagon and rode off. When they got to Tryssø, they could hear that the drum was being beaten in Rold, so that the men could gather and talk about what they should do with the tailor. 
     This here tailor went around sewing for people, but in the end he went around begging. He was shy with women. One place, he was sitting on the table sewing and the children were standing on the floor rocking a baby, while their mother was just out milking, and they tipped over her cradle and it landed on top of the baby. But the tailor wasn’t man enough to go over and help the little baby up, because it was a girl. When the mother came back in she said, “Couldn’t you have done the baby a favor and picked the cradle up, it could have lain their and suffocated?” But he answered, “Nah, I won’t mess with that shit, no sirree. If it had been a boy, then it would have been a totally different story.” Kold-Jen’s old mother wanted him to sew a dress for her, and then he was supposed to measure her. But he answered, “Get out of here, I can make it fit her.” He didn’t want to touch her. The same tailor could get all of the town’s dogs to follow along behind him in a line. He talked well with them and patted them while he said, “Are you coming over here, my friend, you are my only friend in the world. Do you remember the time I helped you out when you’d stolen all those wonderful herrings, I knew it, but I didn’t say anything.”