A farmhand for a cow
	Once there were two men, the one was rich and had a large farm and enough of everything, but the other one lived in utter poverty, and there was not even a chance that the rich one would give the poor one even salt for an egg. Now I am going to tell you a little about how the two wound up changing places.
	Things had gone so bad for the poor one that he had nothing but a single cow left, and it looked like he was going to have to sell it to get some food. So one day he drags it off to market, but when he gets to an intersection, a wagon all of a sudden comes driving up in the other direction, and there were three farmhands sitting in it. They asked him where he was going, and he wanted to know where they were going. Well, they were going to hang the person sitting in between them, because he was a master thief.
	"I think it is quite a sin to hang him," says the poor man, "because he is a strong, healthy person."
	Well, that didn’t matter, he was to be hung. "But maybe you want to trade, and get a farmhand in exchange for a cow, and then we won’t have to hang him, and you’ll get your way."
	Well, that’s all the same to me, he says, and then he decides to make that deal with them, and they decide to say when they get back that the thief had escaped from them. 
	And so he gets the farmhand, and drags him off to the market, but the whole day passed, and no one came and asked what the thief cost. And so he had to take him home that evening.
	"So, what did you get for the cow?" said his wife when he got home.
	Well, he had gotten this here farmhand for it.
	"Oh, are you crazy, and that’s why things are the way they are here, don’t you think we have enough people to feed, and now you come with another?"
	Well, the man couldn’t say anything to that, and then they were going to have some dinner; but the wife had nothing other than a little clump of porridge and a bread crust. There wasn’t enough food for more than one, but now they had traded the thing they were friends with, and then there wasn’t anything at all for the next day.
	Then the master thief says that she shouldn’t complain, he’d certainly get them some bread, because he wasn’t a thief for nothing. But now it was best that they calmed down until the next day.
	When the dawn was breaking, he asks the wife what they needed the most. "Well," she says, "I don’t really know since we have neither this nor that."
	"Well, then it’s probably best if we get some bread, and I’ll drive to the mill for you now."
	"Well, that certainly won’t help," she says, "since we don’t have any grain in the house."
	"Don’t you have a couple of sacks and a conveyance of some sort?"
	Sure, they had both, and he gets a pair of old nags harnessed to a tattered wagon and they set off with a couple of empty sacks in the back. When he passes a sand pit, he stops and fills all the sacks with sand. He loaded them up on the wagon, and when he drove off, no one would have said anything other than it was quite a load of grain he had there. Now he drove to the mill, where it was quite busy, and since the journeyman miller was busy up in the mill, when he got there, he carried the sacks in himself one after another and put them down next to a bunch of other sacks. Then he goes up to the journeyman and asks if he could get his grain milled today.
	"No," he answers, "not today, we’ve gotten so much that has to be milled first; but you can come and get it tomorrow, it’ll certainly be finished by then."
	Well, he couldn’t wait for that, they didn’t have any bread at the farm where he worked, and he had to come back with it; then he’d have to go someplace else.
	"Well, you’ll just have to do that," says the journeyman, and the thief goes down and carries the sacks back out to the wagon again; but he made sure that he took some other sacks that had flour in them. Now he drives quickly home with them, and the wife now got busy baking. They were blessed with more bread than they had been in a long while.
	But that wasn’t enough, because the wife let it be known that things were pretty bad now without a cow since they couldn’t have a little butter to spread on the bread. The master thief says that they could get enough to afford a cow as well. Did they have any butter forms? Yes, they had plenty of those, if only there had been something in them. "OK, OK, I’ll drive to the market town and get some butter to put in them," he says. But she didn’t understand how he’d do that since they didn’t have a shilling to pay for it.
	He gets the horses harnessed up and drives off with some of the empty forms. When he gets to the sand pit, he fills them with sand, and puts each cover on nicely. Then he drives to the town and into a grocer’s farm, where he immediately begins carrying the forms into the warehouse and puts them down next to the other butter forms. Then he goes into the store and says that he has come with a load of butter, and he wanted to know what they would pay for it. Well, they paid so and so much. No, he wouldn’t sell butter for that price, it was so and so good the butter, he could certainly get more for it another place, and whatever, he just made something up. Well, they wouldn’t pay any more, they said, and so he went out to the warehouse and was going to load the butter back into the wagon, but made sure of course that he took some other forms, which really had butter in them, and then he drove straight home to the poor man with it.
	They really praised the thief, now they had both bread and butter, and it was really wonderful.
	Then it happens that the rich man’s grandmother dies that same day and they make all sorts of arrangements to get her buried. The people from the poor man’s house helped out with that, and so they were invited to the funeral along with the new farmhand who lived with them.
	Then that afternoon, after they had eaten, the guests come out and are going to look at the rich man’s cows. They had a big fat cow that was ready to be slaughtered, and everyone thought that it was in really remarkable shape. That evening, when the poor farmer and his people get home, the master thief says that it would be best if they went and got that cow, because it was ready to be both slaughtered and eaten. Well, it wouldn’t be that easy to make off with it. Well, he said, it could certainly be done, they just had to sharpen some knives, and then he’d easily get the cow. 
	He goes up to the cemetery and digs up the old lady who’d been buried and he carries her down into the cow barn and puts her in the stall where the cow had been, and then he leads the cow out; but he cut the cow’s tail off and stuck it in her mouth. When he had gotten home with the cow, they slaughter it that same night. Now they had bread, butter and meat in abundance.
	The next morning, when the hired girl went out to milk, Grandma is sitting there in the stall and has eaten the whole cow down to the tail. She runs in to the farmer and tells him that Grandma is walking again and is sitting out in the cow barn.
	"That’s horrible," says the rich man when he saw that sight, "she was always gluttonous when she was alive, but if she now wants to eat entire head of cattle now that she’s dead, there’s not much that can be done."
	They had no idea what to do, and so they went down to the minister and told him that Grandma had come back and had eaten the red cow to still her hunger, since she hadn't eaten now in so many days, could he help them to get rid of her, since he probably would go again?
	"There’s nothing else to do," said the minister, "then to bury her again."
	"Couldn’t the minister do something like conjuring her?" said the farmer, "Because I’m scared that she’ll come back. I’ll pay you very well for doing it."
	"Well, I’ll do my best, bring her to the church gate, I’ll meet up with you and get rid of her forever."
	Then she is buried a second time and the minister gets one hundred daler for his trouble. 
	But the thief went after her that night and scraped her up again, and then put her in the rich man’s dining room, where there were lots of barrels and containers of beer and mead and wine. He took all of this and brought it down to the poor man’s house, but he carried the empty barrels back up there, and then he put Grandma in there besides one of the barrels with a barrel tap in her mouth.
	When the people woke up the next morning, and the hired girl opens the door to the dining room, then she sees the old one sitting in there and she runs in and shouts: "Master! Now Grandma has come back again and she’s sitting in the dining room." He comes down to investigate. It turns out that she has drunk all of their beer and mead and wine and was sitting there still sucking on a barrel tap.
	Now he had to go back to the minister again and tell him how bad things had gotten and that last night she’d been horribly thirsty and so and so and that’s how it was.
	Well, says the minister, he couldn’t have anything to do with that.
	No, he really had to put her away one more time, then he’d get two hundred daler.
	Well, then they could meet up again at the church gate, he’d certainly be there. And so it went, and she was buried for a third time that day.
	Now they had filled up on food and drink down at the poor man’s house. But the master thief goes up to the cemetery any way and digs her up again. Then he brings her down to the rich man’s living room, where they had a big closet which was filled with clothes, and these were clothes that were warm and durable. He took everything out of the closet, and he took the things with him, but he left Grandma behind in the chest.
	The next morning when one of the women went to open the closet to get some clothes, the dead one falls out and nearly knocks her over. She comes crying and screaming down to the others and says that Grandma is in the clothes closet. Sure enough, she was there again, and every stitch of clothes that had been in the closet was gone; well, that made sense, she had probably been freezing these last few days and had now lugged the things off, but had gotten locked in at last. 
	The rich man goes up to the minister again and tells him how things stand. Now he’ll give him three hundred daler for getting rid of her.
	No, he couldn’t have anything to do with that, because he’d done his best, and he couldn’t understand how she could keep coming back. But the man begs him, he really has to help him, and he finally convinces him. And so she’s buried for a fourth time.
	But it is just like before. The thief goes and scrapes up the corpse at night, and then he carries her down to their stall where their two good horses stood, the one a bit younger than the other. He puts Grandma up on the younger one so that she’s riding backwards, and ties her on tightly, and he loosens the horse’s harness shaft. The next morning, when they wake up, and the farmhand goes out to feed the horses, as soon as he opens the barn door, he immediately sees that she’s come back and is straddling the horse. He closes the door quickly and runs in and complains loudly about that sight he’s seen there. Now the man goes down to the minister again to get her chased off once more. He starts off by taking the older horse out and getting up on it to ride. But the stall door was split and since they only closed the bottom part during the day, the horse pulls itself free and jumps out through the opening. But Grandma slammed her head really hard against the head of the door frame when the horse jumped out, and when he hears the bang the man looks back and discovers what’s behind him. He gets so scared that he rides off as fast as he can. But no matter how hard he rode she was either right next to him or a little ahead of him, and when she got a little in front of him it looked to him like she was sitting looking back to see if he was coming. He comes riding into the minister’s farm like a mad man and Grandma comes flying behind him. The minister hears the tumult and looks out; he recognizes the old hag that he now has buried four times and he runs out and shouts, “Away with her, I’ve had enough to do with her!” The man begs him to get rid of her one last time, but he says he neither will nor can have anything to do with her, and it didn’t matter if he’d give him a lot or a little to do it.
	So they leave as best they can and head for home, and the man was completely meek; his grandmother kept up and when he rode into the stall, she did too. When the man comes into the living room, he complains to his wife, now he didn’t know what to do, and he was afraid that they’d never get rid of her. Then she says that she is going to go down to their neighbors and ask them if they’d ever heard of such a thing before, because it could be that they might know how to get rid of a revenant.
	"Yes, certainly go down there," says the husband, and she goes off.
	When she gets there, she tells them how things were at home, the old grandmother whose funeral they had attended, she was the worst revenant they had heard of near and far, because they’d now had the minister throw dirt on her four times and paid him well for it, and now they’d offered him four hundred daler to do it a fifth time, but he neither dared nor wanted to do that any more.
	Then the poor man says that he had a farmhand who probably could bury her so that she wouldn’t come back. Well, her husband would pay him well for that, she knew that much. 
	Well, the thief is called in and the wife asks him whether he’d take it on himself to bury their old grandmother so that she’d never come again. He says the he could certainly do that, that was a little thing for him. He had a big book that he opened up and then he said that there was only one way to get rid of this revenant and that was that the rich man was to split his farm and estate and let the poor man have half of it, and in addition give him fifteen hundred daler for his trouble, he wouldn’t do it for less. Yes, they’d go along with that, because they had to get rid of Grandma no matter what it cost. She was pretty sure that her husband didn’t have the fifteen hundred daler, but he could borrow them. Well, then he’d make sure that she’d never come again. Then they went home together, and he took Grandma down off the horse and went off with her up to the cemetery, where he put her down for the fifth time. The man had gone out to get the fifteen hundred daler, and when the farmhand got them, he went home to the poor man and gave him half, but he kept the rest, and then he took his leave from the farm and went his way, because now those two had been helped quite a bit. The rich man had become poorer, both because of the money he had had to pay and because he had had to split his farm, and he had become destitute, but the poor ones had made out well and that’s how they’d switched places because of the master thief.