It isn’t terribly long ago that there was a manor lord who lived at Örndrup whom they called Speitzer. He was so terribly hard on his peasants, that they could barely stand it. So there was a group of his people who agreed to kill him or, at the very least, beat him badly, and one day they surrounded him out in the field and two farmhands jumped on him. They didn’t manage to kill him, but he did get his hands smashed badly. The perpetrators fled to Hamburg—one of them later came back again. The same Speitzer owned Vår and Aggersborggård. He continued to be just as hard on his peasants, and one day he punished some people quite terribly. But a little later, the people at Vår saw one day that there was a stranger following along with Speitzer at the farm. The stranger looked kind of strange, but the people didn’t pay him much mind, they doffed their hats and greeted him, as one did. Speitzer and this stranger now go and talk together, but no one could figure out what it was all about. The people only heard that Speitzer finally said, “That’s what I – then he swore – thought.” At the same time, he and the stranger were climbing a steep stone staircase, and made as if they were going to go into the castle. But just as they get to the top stair, they hear a scream and they see Speitzer fall backwards down the stairs, and then he was alone – the stranger had disappeared like a shooting star. Now Speitzer lay there and was dead, but if he was completely gone then I can’t say for sure; I think so. After his death he continued to wander around the district, especially between Vår and Aggersborggård. He wanted to cross the fjord, and the fishermen who were out there during the summer and fall and fished at night, both heard and saw him not once but many times. He looked like a big, black, ugly bird, and he shouted and yelled, and it was terrifying to hear, but the “beast” was after him. One time there were a couple of young fishermen who talked badly about him one night; but then he was there immediately, and this devilry tumbled the boat so hard that the fishermen nearly went down and home. There were, as we know, a  whole group of meadows down along the southern side of the Fjord, from Aggersund and all the way to Nibe. Speitzer wanted his fingers in all those meadows, and he wrote to the king that, if he were allowed to have them, he would occupy them with steel and let his lads dance over them. The King studies this letter a bit and he was about to let Speitzer have the meadows. But the king had a fool as was the custom in the old days; he was also to have a word about this, and he wasn’t as crazy as the king. He said that the steel that the meadows were to be occupied with were hay scythes, and the lads who were going to dance over them were Speitzer’s villeinage peasants, and when the king got that explanation, he wouldn’t let Speitzer have the meadows.